MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 19:52:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8192
Last-Modified: Friday, 11-Oct-96 17:42:55 GMT

Cornell CSRVL


Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory

Welcome to the Web niche of the Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory. 
cp: No match.
 match.
rrently under development; please don your hard hat.
Questions and comments should be directed to 
mdw@cs.cornell.edu. Thanks.

About the CSRVL 
The Cornell Computer Science Robotics and Vision Laboratory is located 
at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y. We have three main areas of
research:

Computer vision (Prof. Daniel Huttenlocher)
Multimedia applications of computer vision (Prof. Ramin Zabih)
Robotics, 
including distributed manipulation and micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) 
(Prof. Bruce Donald)


Here is a pictoral tour of the CSRVL.

  Current Projects
The following projects are active at the CSRVL.  They are supervised by
Ramin Zabih.

 Automatic Detection and
Classification of Scene Breaks in Digital Video.
 MPEG Browser, allowing
scene break and global motion-based queries.
 Real-time ATM Video Source,
transmission of full-frame video over ATM for parallel computation on
platforms such as the Cornell/NYNET ATM Cluster.
 A number of projects involving high-performance imaging applications.
These include parallel implementations in 
Split-C for
U-Net and 
symmetric multiprocessors.


We have a list of potential Master's
projects, maintained by 
Justin Miller.


Most of our work has been done under Unix, but we are currently
considering a move to WindowsNT.  There is a discussion of some of the
issues
here.
We are hopeful that this move will be supported by 
Microsoft.


  Selected Publications
The following is a list of selected papers of research done at the
CSRVL. Many of these papers are available via 
anonymous FTP.

Many publications from the Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory are 
available from the 
Cornell CS Tech-Reports server. (See below.)
Only those papers not available from the CS-TR server
are listed here.




 Program Mobile Robots in Scheme (B. Donald and J. Rees) 
Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
Nice, France (May, 1992), pp.  2681-2688.


 
On the Complexity of Computing the Homology Type of a Triangulation 
(B. Donald and D. Chang), 
Revised MS based on the paper IEEE Symposium on the Foundations of 
Computer Science  San Juan, (October 1991), pp.  650-661.



Information Invariants for Distributed Manipulation (B. Donald, J.
Jennings and D. Rus) in  The First Workshop on the Algorithmic 
Foundations of Robotics, A. K. Peters, Boston, MA. ed. R. Wilson and
J.-C.Latombe (1994). 


 
Information Invariants in Robotics (B. Donald)
Revised MS based on a paper submitted to  Artificial Intelligence.


Automatic Sensor Configuration for Task-Directed Planning (B. Donald,
A. Briggs),  Proceedings 1994 IEEE International Conference on 
Robotics and Automation, San Diego, CA (May 1994).



Sensorless Manipulation Using Massively Parallel Microfabricated Actuator
Arrays,
K.-F. Böhringer, B. R. Donald, R. Mihailovich, and N. C. MacDonald, 
 Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 
San Diego, CA (May, 1994).



A Theory of Manipulation and Control for Microfabricated Actuator Arrays,
K.-F. Böhringer, B. R. Donald, R. Mihailovich, and N. C. MacDonald, 
Proceedings of the IEEE Workshop on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems, 
Oiso, Japan (January, 1994).


 
A Computational Approach to the Design of Micromechanical Hinged Structures
(extended abstract),
K.-F. Böhringer, 
Proceedings of the ACM/SIGGRAPH Symposium on Solid Modeling and Applications
, Montréal, Quebéc, Canada (May, 1993).



Some other papers are listed 
here.


  Technical Reports by Author
These lists are generated dynamically by the Cornell CS-TR Server.
Here is the  CS-TR server index, 
where you can search for technical reports by author, title, and keyword.
  
Böhringer, Karl
Briggs, Amy
Brown, Russell
Donald, Bruce
Huttenlocher, Daniel
Jennings, Jim
Leventon, Michael
Rucklidge, William
Rus, Daniela

  People at the CSRVL

Karl F. Böhringer
Scott Cytacki
Bruce Donald
      (associate professor)
  Pedro Felzenszwalb
Daniel 
      Huttenlocher (associate professor)
  Ryan Lilien
Michel Maharbiz
Justin Miller
Greg Pass
Daniel Scharstein
Aaron Stump
  Rob Szewczyk
Fernando "Joe" Viton
  Justin Voskuhl
Ed Wayt
Matt Welsh
Greg Whelan 
  Ramin Zabih 
      (assistant professor)
  <l