Date: Thu, 07 Nov 1996 19:13:03 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sat, 02 Nov 1996 20:27:37 GMT
Content-length: 5706



 Rahul's Home Page 




Rahul Kapoor
Hello Internet surfer ! Welcome to my cyber home. I hope you stay here long 
enough to get to know me a little.
Officially I am in my third and final semester as a master's student in the 
Computer Sciences Department at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
I came here in fall '95 after getting my bachelor's degree from the Indian
Institute of Technology, Kanpur. Interested employers please check out my
 resume !







Courses &Schedule




MyDepartment




MyUniversity






IITKanpur




IITKClass of 1995




India relatedlinks










Me

Now that you have gone through the official "who I am" you may want to 
see the personal "who I am". Well, I am a normal kind of guy, born and
raised in a small loving family(comprising of my parents and an elder sister)
in a not so nice town in India called Kanpur. I came to the states in fall '95
and have had the good fortune (ha !) of living in Madison, which Money
magazine rated as the most livable city in US this year (the editor
must have come from Greenland to think that the winter here is livable!) 
I guess I shouldn't complain because during fall and spring Madison is
awesome. During summer I was in San Jose, California working at the 
IBM Almaden research centre 
so I cannot say much about Madison summers but they are supposed to be great. 
Anyway I don't regret not being here because I had a great time 
in the bay area and whatever Money magazine says I think northern California is the place to be !

And now a little about my likes. I love Music(take a look at my
 cd collection 
to know what kind), Movies (almost all genres though I prefer romance and 
comedy), TV (most of the comedy shows, X-Files and Star Trek),
Reading (any new stuff from novels to philosophy), Computers and Web-Surfing !
As far as sports are concerned, I love watching 
cricket
(when India is playing and winning), tennis, figure skating and gymnastics.
This semester I am trying to learn swimming(finally !) and bridge.
I am a nature lover too and enjoy going on long walks and hikes(when 
its cloudy and slightly breezy). 
I wish I could get one of those jobs on television travel shows where you
get to see all the interesting places in the world and get paid for it!







MusicStuff




Movies &Television




InternetTravel




OtherBookmarks









To Contact Me








GuestBook




rahul@cs.wisc.edu



H: (608)264-4143O: (608)262-9275






