Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 01:16:21 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 20:42:20 GMT
Content-length: 5914
Content-type: text/html



Joy Shetler's Home Page








This homepage is currently under development and revision.  For
clarification, please send e-mail to the address given at the 
bottom of this page.


Joy Shetler


Associate Professor

Computer Engineering Program


B.S., Electronic Engineering (Honors), Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo


M.S., Ph.D., Electrical And Computer Engineering, UC Santa Barbara

 
Office: 20-213
Phone: 805/756-2309
Email: jshetler@phoenix.csc.calpoly.edu 



Biography:
Professor Shetler's research interests are in computer architecture and design.
In June 1996, she received a CAREER grant from the National Science
Foundation to establish an active research effort in microelectronic systems 
architecture that enhances the undergraduate curriculum in Computer Engineering,
Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, and introduces students to new 
computer architectures, new technology and microelectronic systems.


The ideas developed by this research will be incorporated into the 
microprocessor and computer architecture curriculum.  The focus of the research
component is to devise and test Instruction Level Parallelism (ILP)
techniques and mechanisms. Programmable Logic Devices, such as FPGAs, are
used to implement rapid system prototyping of custom computer designs and
are also used to implement custom components in reconfigurable architectures.
Part of this project involves developing a rapid-prototyping platform.


Her industrial experience includes computer design
at Burroughs Corp. (now UNISYS) for four years and at Trilogy Systems of
Cupertino (now defunct).  At Burroughs, she was a designer of the A9/A10
mainframe.  While at Trilogy, she designed a multiprocessor cache coherency
mechanism using Wafer Scale Integration (WSI).
Compcon


Dr. Shetler is currently serving on the steering committee for 
Compcon 97.



Teaching Areas:

Dr. Shetler is teaching CPE 316 and CPE X436 for Fall Quarter, 1996.  Only
the information for those courses is valid.  Information on other courses
she has taught may not be up to date.



 Digital Logic Design 
	CPE 219 
	 This course covers introductory material on digital
	design techniques and theory.


 Computer Architecture II
	CPE 315 
          This course covers computer architecture and microprogramming.
	The emphasis is on the RTL (Register Transfer Level) design
	of RISC and CISC based architectures.


 Computer Architecture III
	CPE 316 
          This course covers computer architecture and interfacing
	techniques.  The emphasis is on interfacing at the system bus level
	using asynchronous and synchronous protocols.  Memory addressing
	strategies and memory mapped I/O are also covered.  The lab
	associated with this course covers several team projects.


 Digital Systems Design
	CPE 319 
          This course covers the design of digital systems using 
	combinational and sequential circuits.  The course covers
	current implementation strategies including the use of PLDs
	and FPGAs.


 Microprocessor Systems Design
	CPE X436 
          This course covers microprocessor systems design.

Research Interests:

 multithreaded processor designs
		 description

	 FPGA implementations
		description
		and more description


Recent & Current Master Theses students:

Reggie Hunt - June 1996 - The Design and Implementation of An
	 Object-Based, Interrupt Driven Operating System
	Mike Griffin - June 1996 - The Design and Implementation of An
	 Object-Based, Interrupt Driven Operating System
	Jeff Bain - June 1996 -
	Design and Analysis of Instruction Issue Logic
	Ed Stoebner - In progress
        Chia Yang - In progress

Recent Senior Projects Completed:

Dale Wills - June 1995 
	- Automobile Racetrack Display using an MC68HC11
	Heidi Rylance - December 1995
	- Implementation of the PowerPC's Instruction Queue Using Schematic
	Capture and FPGAs	
	Brandon Blodget - December 1995
	- Implementation of the PowerPC's Instruction Queue Using Schematic
	Capture and FPGAs	
	Charles DeCraene - March 1996
	- MC68000 Based Small Computer

Senior Projects in Progress:
Please note that these are preliminary topics and may change slightly!


Alison Barnes - Robot Controller board using an embedded
	microprocessor
	Kai Lee - Microprocessor Systems Development using Wind River
	 Systems Software
	Phong Nguyen - VHDL implementation of a co-processor using FPGAs
	Carlos Rios - PCI based application

Accelerators:

  include pointers here to things of interest, etc.







Please send any constructive comments to Joy Shetler
copyRight © 1996 by CSC dept Cal Poly. All rights 
reserved,
etc., etc.



