Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.1
Date: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 21:08:53 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 20-Jun-96 22:03:24 GMT
Content-length: 3500
Content-type: text/html

W. Lewis Johnson


W. Lewis Johnson
 
Research Interests


Interests center around the use of artificial intelligence and
human-computer interaction in
education and lifelong learning.  He leads several projects in this
area.

 The 
Intelligent
Documentation (I-DOC) project is
developing a system that dynamically generates descriptions and
explanations of software systems.  A follow-on to this effort, called
Media-Doc
will integrate graphical media into these explanations, and explore
the use of design rationales in explanation of software.

 The Virtual
Environments for Training (VET) is developing autonomous
pedagogical agents to increase the effectiveness of virtual
environments for training purposes.

The PROBES
project is developing tools for analyzing, explaining, and critiquing
behavior in training simulations.  This builds on earlier work on
debriefable
agents and plan recognition.


The Automated Distance
Education (ADE) project is developing multimedia distance education
software, incorporating automated student assessment and curriculum
sequencing.



Biography


Dr. Johnson is a Project Leader of the
Educational Technology
Group
at the 
USC / Information Sciences Institute
and Research Associate Professor of Computer Science at the University of Southern California (USC).
Lewis Johnson received his A.B.  degree in Linguistics in 1978 from
Princeton University, and his M.Phil.  and Ph.D.  degrees in Computer
Science from 
Yale University
in 1980 and 1985, respectively.  He is co-editor of the
journal Automated
Software Engineering.
He is
a member of the Steering Committee of the 
Knowledge-Based Software
Engineering Conference, a member of the Executive Committee of the

Artificial Intelligence in Education Society, co-chair of
the First Autonomous
Agents Conference, 
and Chair of
SIGART.


When not working with computers, Lewis sings professionally in concert
and on stage.  He is a member of the American Guild of Musical Artists
and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.


Contact Information


University of Southern California
 Information Sciences Institute 
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina del Rey, CA 90292-6695
Tel: (310) 822-1511
Fax: (310) 823-2390 
johnson@isi.edu

