Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 03:34:55 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html


 
Software Safety (UW) -- Research







      Our research is currently centered on building a CAD environment for
      safety-critical software.  The development environment contains a set
      of support and analysis tools that work on system and software 
      specifications written in a language that we believe will support 
      communication among the various development groups, including system
      engineers, software engineers, application experts, and human factors
      (cognitive) engineers. 

      The specification language, RSML (Requirements State Machine Language),
      has a formal foundation and is suitable for automated analysis, but 
      we have also found it to be readable by application experts with little 
      training and minimal mathematical background.  One unique aspect of 
      our approach is that the analysis is performed directly on the system 
      specification.  Most approaches to formally evaluating systems
      require the extra and often difficult step of translating the system 
      design into a mathematical modeling language.  Our executable 
      model/specification  is  the system specification, and the 
      identified hazards and their control requirements are traceable (in 
      both directions) from the early preliminary hazard identification 
      through to design and implementation.  As the system development 
      proceeds, analyses and evaluations can be performed that are 
      appropriate to the particular development stage.  For more information, 
      see the original RSML paper, Requirements
      Specification for Process-Control Systems.  A paper on the updates
      to RSML is in preparation. 

      RSML was originally developed to specify the system requirements for
      TCAS II (an aircraft collision avoidance system).  Since that
      first demonstration of our approach to a real system, we have been
      extending the modeling language to include intent and design rationale,
      improving the readability and usability of the models, and developing
      a suite of automated tools to assist in evaluating the 
      model/specification for safety.  The major changes to RSML are being
      made to assist in dealing with the complexity of real systems. 
      Because understanding the specification is crucial for human detection
      of errors, we are also experimenting with various types of 
      visualization techniques to assist the analyst in understanding the 
      model and the analysis results.  

      Our approach to safety evaluation is based on system safety engineering
      concepts.  We use standard safety engineering approaches and extend 
      them to deal with software and human error, and we use automation
      to enhance our ability to cope with complex systems. Identification, 
      classification, and evaluation of hazards is done using modeling and 
      analysis.  To be effective, these models and analysis tools must 
      consider hardware, software, and human components.  They also need 
      to include a variety of analysis techniques and orthogonal 
      approaches: There exists no single safety analysis or evaluation
      technique that can handle all the aspects of complex systems.

      The safety analysis tools we currently are prototyping and evaluating 
      include:

Simulator. RSML specifications can be executed using
            analyst-supplied scenarios or test cases.  The simulator is 
            operational but we
            have a few limitations on the language that we need to relax.
	    
Backward Simulation and Fault Tree generation. Backward
	    simulation starts at a particular system configuration and
	    identifies the paths that could have led to
            that configuration.  Starting with a particular hazard, the
            analyst can use backward simulation to determine whether this 
            hazard could occur and how.  Information about the states
            preceding a hazard can be used to eliminate the hazard from the
            design.  The results of this backward analysis can be presented 
            in the form of a fault tree.
	    
Consistency and Completeness Checking. This tool
	    checks RSML specifications for two properties: (1)
            completeness with respect to a set of criteria related to 
            robustness (a response is specified for every possible input and
            input sequence) and (2) consistency (the specification is free
            from conflicting requirements and undesired nondeterminism). 
            The method scales up to large systems by decomposing the 
            specification into smaller, analyzable parts and then using
            functional composition rules to ensure that verified properties
            hold for the entire specification.  The tool has been used on
            the TCAS specification and others.  For more information, see
	    our paper titled Completeness and Consistency
	    Analysis of State-Based Requirements.  
Deviation Analysis.
	    Deviation Analysis is a new safety analysis technique to aid in
            identifying specified behavior that may lead to hazardous system
            states.  The procedure is based on the underlying systems theory
            that accidents are caused by deviations in system paramenters.
            Using a formal software or system requirements specification,
            the analyst provides assumptions about particular deviations in
            software inputs and the procedure automatically generates the 
            scenarios in which the analyst's assumptions lead to deviations 
            in identified safety-critical outputs.  Software Deviation 
            Analysis incorporates many of the beneficial features of HAZOP 
            but automates this manual hazard analysis technique and extends 
            it to handle the complexity and logical nature of computer software.
	    
Deviation Analysis Interface
            A GUI to aid in the use of software deviation anlaysis.
	    

Human-Computer Interface Safety Analysis.
            These tools are still under development, but our goal is to
            extend RSML to include the human-computer interface and to
            apply hazard analysis techniques to this augmented model.
	    
Timing Analysis.  With Professor Alan Shaw, we are
            exmining how to add timing analysis tools to our toolset.
	    




A screen snapshot of the requirements engineering environment.

The requirements engineering environment supports or will support:

      
A graphical user interface for creating,
	    editing, and browsing specifications.  
	    
Graphical and textual interfaces to each of the
	    analysis methods listed above.  This affords interactive
	    exploration as well as automated batch processing.
	    
Both graphical and textual
	    specification representations.  
	    
A pretty printer that produces printed specifications.
	    


      In addition to TCAS II, we have several other realistic test beds
      for our analyses and toolkit.  These include an model of an
      automated highway system from the UCB PATH project, an aircraft
      flight guidance system from NASA Ames, and a NASA robot. 

      Planned:
      
Human-computer interface analysis.
Improved and new hazard analysis techniques.
Testing tools.
More completeness analyses.
Timing analysis.
Improved modeling language.
Demonstration on part of the U.S. air traffic control system.





 
