Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 21:17:03 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 08 Sep 1996 23:55:15 GMT
Content-length: 5602




dylan's ramblings






 
      




dylan mcnamee

433 Sieg Hall, 
         
         University of Washington
         
         Seattle, WA 98195 USA 
      


 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      




Here's a link to my
         ``serious''
         home page, in case personal details aren't what you're
         after. 
I've just added a list of
         Things
         I Like. I like to read other people's similar lists. I
         think they help to build a feeling of community. How? If
         someone has an interest in a little known, but amazingly
         good artist (like J. J. Cale or Taj Mahal), or movie (Delicatessen comes
         to mind), they might search for them with Alta Vista, and
         find a number of other like-minded people. Maybe even people
         they already knew, but didn't know they shared an interest. 
         
Heidi and I recently returned from a trip to Italy
         (mainly Florence) to visit my sister-in-law
         Lisa
         and her husband Patrick. Here's a picture of
         us
         in Venice. 
My interests include electronics (mainly audio),
         unit
         origami, cycling, hacking at school, rock climbing,
         ultimate frisbee and cross-country skiing. I'm also a
         Dvorak
         keyboard advocate. Some of my friends say I'm nuts
         because I enjoy
         hacking
         PostScript. 
I like chocolate.
         These
         cookies have enough of it. 
I lost a bet involving a flow-bee. You can
         see
         the event if you're at all interested. ``Thanks'' to Ted
         Romer for documenting this (in)auspicious event. 
My officemates are Stefan Savage, Mike Feeley, prZemyslaw
         pardyAK, Ashutosh Tiwary, and famous post-docs Wilson Hsieh,
         and Herve Jamrozik. We work in Sieg Hall, which is
         purportedly the ugliest building on campus. 
My wife, partner and best friend is
         Heidi,
         a really neat (non-CS) person. She enjoys gardening, reading
         and cycling, but doesn't have enough time to do these things
         since she works for Starbucks coffee. She is the ``coffee
         and beverage specialist'' for Starbucks' research and
         development department. 

         -----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
         Version: 2.6.2
         
         mQCPAzHS4nUAAAEEAM1mWnAip2QfwZtq3rTyfg63hUg+wFD/W7CZUeCBQnNdW5jq
         Pz/e4fXGx29OmwJtJ0BOLm6BjP8i+4K5dk2l+C9iRjHPOK52236rP2KRup0KmFlm
         Dmu8UBRaR1c6aeP/IymHwkIQDjDHXe1Vu7G9FCOjJAeECcWt7VrtJqwu1BxBABEB
         AAG0IER5bGFuIEouIE1jTmFtZWUgPGR5bGFuQGVmbi5vcmc+
         =aAr9
         -----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
         



 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
A note about this page:
         
         I built this page on my Macintosh using Claris'
         neat tool
         called Home Page. You can
         try
         it too. I formatted this in about 20
         minutes. It's just a big table. Very slick interface.
         I found out about Home Page on the EvangeList.





