Date: Mon, 02 Dec 1996 15:42:43 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html



CSE 557 Syllabus


CSE 557: Computer Graphics
Autumn Quarter 1995

Syllabus

Course personnel:

 Professor: Tony DeRose.
 TA: Jim Fix.
 Office hours, etc.

Administrivia:

 Time: MWF 12:30-1:20
 Place: Sieg 231



Prerequisites:

 A good working knowledge of C (preferrably C++) programming
 Linear algebra + some mathematical sophistication
 No prior knowledge of graphics is assumed.



 Required Text: 

James Foley, Anries Van Dam, Steven Feiner, and John Hugues,
Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice,
Addison-Wesley, 1990. 

 Optional texts: 

 OpenGL Reference Manual. Addison-Wesley, 1992.
 Jackie Neider, Tom Davis, and Mason Woo. OpenGL Programming
Guide. Addison-Wesley, 1993. 
 Josie Wernecke, The Inventor Mentor. Addison-Wesley, 1994.

Supplemental texts:

 Michael F. Cohen and John R. Wallace. Radiosity and Realistic
Image Synthesis. Academic Press, Cambridge, MA, 1993.
 Gerald Farin. Curves and Surfaces for CAGD: A Practical Guide.
Academic Press, San Diego, 1988.


See me (DeRose) if you'd like to borrow these one or more of these
texts for a short time.


Grading: 

 Project (same grade for all team members): 35%
 Project knowledge (individual): 15%
 Midterm: 15%  
 Final: 35%


The tentative date for the midterm is November 8, 1995.


Lectures:

The lectures will be partitioned into three more-or-less independent
topic areas: rendering, geometric modeling, and animation.  These
topics make use of various mathematical and numerical methods
(including affine geometry, wavelets, finite element methods,
numerical optimization), so I will occasionally provide tutorials on
appropriate material.

Projects:

The graphics courses are being taught using our new 
graphics instructional lab
consisting of 14 Silicon Graphics Indy R4400s.  The lab is located in
Sieg 228.



There will be three projects, one per topic area, plus a short
exercise to get you up to speed on using the Indys.  You'll work on
each project in a team with one or two other students in the class.
The first two projects will require you and your teammate(s) to make
substantial extensions to an existing interactive graphical
application. The last project will require you to create a short
animation (30-60 seconds long).


The projects we have in mind are:


 Project 0: Sierpinski (not due):
 A simple program to create a fractal called the Sierpinski Triangle.

 Project 1: Trace (due 11/3):
 A program to create relatively realistic images, complete with
shadows, reflections, and transparent effects.

 Project 2: Sweeper (due around 11/20):
 A program to create complex surfaces by extruding (sweeping) a
curve along a path in three dimensions.

 Project 3: Animation (due around 12/8):
 Create a short animation of your own design (subject to my
     approval).



Projects will be graded during in-person sessions with either me or
Jim. During the grading session, we will run the project to make
sure that it meets or exceeds the goals of the project. We'll then
quiz individual members of the team to determine how well they
understand the structure of the code, the design trade-offs, and the
implemented algorithms.


One grade will be assigned for all members of the team for the
project's implementation.  Separate grades will be recorded for each
team member's "knowledge of the project." 
See the project grading document for
further details.

Project Turn-in & Late Policy:

Assignments are due at the beginning of lecture on the due date.
This means that the modification stamp on the project executable
must be earlier than the start of lecture on the due date. Late
assignments are marked down at a rate of 33% per day (not per
lecture), meaning that if you fail to turn in an assignment on time
it is worth 66% for the first 24 hours after the deadline, 33%
for the next 24 hours, and it is worth nothing after that.  In
addition, no extra credit for bells and whistles will be awarded
for any late assignment.

Exceptions will be given only in extreme circumstances and only
in advance.


