Date: Wed, 08 Jan 1997 21:47:43 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html



CSE467 Hardware Lab Policies


CSE467: Advanced Logic Design
Carl Ebeling, Spring 1996 

Hardware Laboratory - Overview and Policies
                              
Lab assignments will be completed in 
the Digital Design Laboratory (327 Sieg).  (You may also use the
workstations in the 232 Pentium lab after the design tools are installed.)
There are 10 Intel Pentium workstation on workbenches 
in the lab.  There are also a number of other PCs and Macs which we
will not be using much, if at all.
The logic analyzers and digital oscilloscopes you will be using are at 
approximately one half of the benches.  In addition, there also is a 
DataI/O PLD and microcontroller programmer.  Multi-meters, oscilloscopes, 
and other tools and equipment are available.  

 Rules:There will be absolutely no food or drink brought
into the lab and you should refrain from activities that disrupt
fellow students.  Please help us to keep the lab clean and neat with
equipment, manuals, and tools in their proper place.  If you are going
to be gone from the Lab for any length of time, please clear your
working space so someone else will be able to work.  Since other
students have access to the lab, do not assume that you can safely use
a workbench indefinitely.  If for some reason you need to monopolize a
bench or piece of equipment, make sure to leave a note explaining the
situation with your name and a phone number where you can be reached.

Laboratory Hours: The laboratory must be shared with the students 
in CSE370 and CSE477.  CSE467 and CSE477 have priority at during the
following times:
CSE467 A: Tuesday 1:30-4:20
CSE467 B: Thursday 1:30-4:20
CSE477: Wednesday 2:30-5:20 and Friday 2:30-5:20

You will be asked to vacate a bench if no 
others are available for those students.  All other times are available
to all students with a simple limit of 2 hours per sitting.  A student 
already at a bench for 2 hours will need to vacate and take a turn at the
end of the line.  This restriction will only be put in place if things
get really crowded.

Computer-Aided Design Software (Synario/XACT): This 
course will make heavy use of CAD software in the form of Synario and
XACT.  Synario includes schematic capture, VHDL programming, simulation and
synthesis for PLDs andFPGAs. XACT is a suite of tools used for mapping
circuits to Xilinx FPGAs.  Synario is installed on the ten networked
NT workstations (the one with names).  XACT is installed on some
subset of the lab PCs, so you will have to shift between machines to
use it.  The software is copy protected and any 
attempt to tamper with this mechanism or otherwise make illegal copies 
will be dealt with very severely and through the same channels as physical 
property theft.  To defray the costs of acquiring this software we will 
require a lab use fee of $20 (a separate check payable to the University 
of Washington).

Pentium Computers: The Pentiums in 327 (as well as those in 232) are
connected to the network
and run under the Windows NT operating system.  Accounts on the Pentiums will
be provided to you by the first lab session.  Please use the disk
space associated with your account to store lab files.
Also, practice common sense with respect to computer 
virus protection.  If you use any other machines, get into the habit of 
always using an anti-virus program (one will be available on the lab 
machines).  
We reserve the 
right to reformat any local disk in the lab which we suspect to be infected or 
otherwise damaged or corrupted.  In fact, we will regularly clean up all 
the disks in the lab to eliminate accumulated files and free up disk space.  
This policy will also protect you from plagiarism.  Remember: do not leave any 
files on a lab machines - they may be gone when you return and/or someone 
else may put them to use.

Design Kits: Design Kits are portable kits that contain
everything needed to complete the laboratory 
assignmentsthat.  Project teams will check out DesignKits for the
quarter (kits will be available the second week of the quarter).  
In the DesignKit will be a card for keeping track of extra items that you  
may need to check out during the quarter.  We will need a $200 security 
deposit for the DesignKit.  

Security: You will be given a personal entry 
code for the combination lock on the door of 327.  The lock will keep 
track of when you enter the lab.  Please make sure to keep the entry code 
to yourself.  Unauthorized access to the lab leads at best to 
inconvenience and at worst to theft and equipment loss.  All these harm 
you directly.  The lab will be available for your use 24 hours a day.  Do 
not allow ANYONE into the lab and make sure the windows and doors 
are locked at all times.  We cannot guarantee that things you leave in 
the lab unattended will not be stolen.  Unfortunately, there is a tradeoff 
between security and access.  If you are all good citizens we should be 
able to have access and a secure environment.  Stephen Lee, the 
engineering technician in charge of the lab, will be available during 
normal business hours.  He will be the person from whom you will the 
combination lock codes.  Any problems with laboratory equipment and/or 
software should be immediately reported to him.  Do not remove any 
equipment, documentation, or tools from the room.  Please see Stephen if 
you need to check out a manual or anything else overnight.

Money:  You will need to bring two checks to the lab.  One for 
$20 to defray the cost of the commercial software you will be 
using and a $200 security deposit for the DesignKits you will be 
issued and other materials, parts, tools, equipment, and documentation 
you may check out from the lab.  Make checks out to the "University of 
Washington".  These will be due by the end of the first week of class.
The $200 checks will be returned at the end of the quarter when the 
DesignKits and any other parts, equipment, or documentation borrowed in 
the interim are returned in good shape.  You will be held personally 
responsible for any damage to parts and equipment.  The $20 checks will 
be cashed.




ebeling@cs.washington.edu



