Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 22:29:40 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tue, 09 Jan 1996 22:40:14 GMT
Content-length: 12258



Research Summary of Shun-Tak A. Leung


Research Summary

My current research centers on compiler-directed program restructuring
techniques to improve the cache locality of array accesses in loops.
Specifically, I am studying the use of 
array restructuring to optimize for spatial locality and, in parallel
execution, to reduce false sharing.

I have also worked on improving the performance and applicability of runtime parallelization in an earlier
project.

My advisor is Prof. John
Zahorjan.  For a list of my publications on these and other subjects,
click here.


Array Restructuring
My current research focuses on compiler-directed program restructuring
techniques to improve cache locality.  Specifically, I am studying the use
of array restructuring to optimize array accesses in loops. My work
combines the development of algorithms within a formal framework,
implementation of a prototype compiler, and extensive experimentation
with benchmark loops. It shows how array restructuring can be applied
automatically and efficiently to a wide class of applications.

Array restructuring is an approach to enhancing the locality of array
accesses in loops. These accesses are targeted because they account for a
major portion of the memory traffic in many array-based scientific
computations.  Moreover, since they are typically executed many times, the
effort spent on optimizing a few of them in the program text can yield huge
benefits in execution performance.

Under the array restructuring approach, the compiler analyzes how each
array is accessed and lays out the array appropriately according to the
access pattern. As a trivial example, if a two-dimensional array is
accessed by rows, the compiler may decide to store it in row-major order,
whereas if it is accessed by columns, the compiler would choose
column-major storage. In contrast, traditionally the storage order is fixed
for all arrays, forcing programmers concerned about program performance to
write programs in such a way that the data access pattern matches the fixed
data layout as far as possible.

My research in array restructuring is motivated in part by the
observation that array restructuring in many ways complements loop
restructuring --- an alternative approach that changes the execution order
of loop iterations rather than the storage order of array elements --- but
has received much less attention. For example, array restructuring can be
easily applied to complicated loops that may hamper many automatic loop
restructuring techniques. Also, array restructuring can improve spatial
locality without jeopardizing temporal locality, whereas loop restructuring
affects both types of locality. However, while loop restructuring has been
widely studied, relatively little is known about how to apply array
restructuring automatically and efficiently.

My research shows how array restructuring can be applied automatically
and efficiently to a wide class of programs. This not only provides a new
set of techniques to complement existing loop restructuring techniques, but
also produces insights and experience that will, I believe, contribute to
an integrated approach combining the strengths of the two. Specifically, my
work makes four contributions: a framework to
represent array transformations, algorithms to
automate array restructuring within this framework, a prototype compiler to implement these algorithms, and
experiments to evaluate their effectiveness.

Framework
I have formulated a framework to represent a general class of array
transformations. In this framework, an array to be restructured (the
"original array") is replaced by another array (the "restructured array")
that contains the same elements but in a different order. Correspondence
between elements of these two arrays is defined by an invertible linear
transformation of their index vectors. In other words, instead of using an
index vector to find an element in the original array, we apply a linear
transformation to that vector and use the result to find the corresponding
element in the restructured array. It may appear that the extra
transformation imposes a significant overhead, but in fact this is not the
case, for the following reason. Traditionally the memory address of an
array element is a linear function of the indices. This condition is the
basis of most compiler optimizations for reducing indexing
overhead. Applying an extra linear transformation to the index vectors does
not invalidate this condition and therefore does not entail any extra
indexing overhead --- a property essential for the efficiency and thus
viability of array restructuring.

Algorithms
I have developed algorithms within this framework for the key steps in
array restructuring. My algorithms solve these problems with simple linear
algebraic techniques in the common case where the array indices are linear
functions of loop variables. These algorithms have also been adapted to
deal with more general access patterns as well.



The first step of array restructuring is to analyze the access pattern
of each array and choose a transformation to optimize for locality. To do
this, we can represent each array access as a linear mapping, relate the
access's locality properties to the mapping's mathematical properties, and
select a linear transformation to effect desired changes in the mapping ---
and thus in the access itself. 
Second, we need to compute the set of elements accessed by the loop to
determine which elements the restructured array must contain. This is
achieved by representing loop and array bounds as sets of linear
inequalities or, geometrically, convex polyhedra, which are manipulated
with known mathematical techniques. 
Third, elements of the restructured array have to be laid out in memory
in such a way that each element can be efficiently located given its
indices. This is a non-trivial problem; for example, in the case of
two-dimensional arrays, general array transformations may cause rows of the
restructured array to have different lengths and start at different column
positions, violating the basic assumptions of the traditional way of laying
out array elements. My solution is to apply a further transformation that
reduces the problem to a more traditional form without jeopardizing the
locality improvement achieved by prior transformations. 
Finally, the program code is transformed appropriately. Transformed
array accesses are generated from their linear mapping representations
computed earlier. 

Prototype
I have implemented a prototype compiler to perform array restructuring
automatically. It is based on the SUIF
compiler from Stanford University. SUIF itself comprises a number of
compiler passes over an intermediate program representation. My
implementation consists of an array restructuring pass (about 9,000 lines
of C++) added after SUIF's own optimization passes, and a runtime library
(about 2,000 lines of C and C++).

Results
I have performed a series of experiments using the NASA7 kernels from
the SPEC benchmarks and other loops from the literature. The experiments
were designed to study how array restructuring affects performance for a
range of problem sizes as well as how it compares and interacts with
various loop restructuring techniques. They were carried out on four
different platforms representing two types of machines: single-processor
workstations (Alpha-based DEC 3000 and PowerPC-based IBM RS/6000) and
shared-memory multiprocessors (R8000-based SGI Power Challenge and Kendall
Square Research's KSR2, which has a proprietary processor).

Experimental results have been encouraging. On a DEC 3000 workstation,
array restructuring decreased the execution time in most of the loops by
40-50% (over 80% in some cases), and increased it in none. The average
improvement was 53% (or 31% if including loops for which the compiler did
not apply array restructuring at all).  This occurred for a wide range of
problem sizes. Results for IBM RS/6000 were similar. On both platforms,
performance improved because array restructuring led to better spatial
locality. For the same reason, performance on KSR2 and SGI Power Challenge
showed similar improvements for execution on any number of
processors. Moreover, in several cases where false sharing had existed,
array restructuring removed this performance bottleneck, producing
performance benefits that increased with the number of processors.

Experiments also showed that in both applicability and performance,
array restructuring techniques complemented many common loop
restructuring techniques, including those performed by a production quality
optimizing compiler from SGI. It was successfully applied to loops that
these techniques could not automatically transform. It achieved comparable,
often better, performance where both were applicable. In the few cases
where it did not perform as well, simple forms of loop restructuring
would have sufficed, again suggesting that loop and array restructuring
are complementary.

More can be found in a technical
report.  A more concise version is here.


Runtime Parallelization
Runtime parallelization is a two-step strategy of parallelizing
loops that may contain substantial parallelism but cannot be parallelized
at compile time because of insufficient dependence information.  To
parallelize such a loop, the compiler generates two code fragments: the
inspector and the executor.  At run time, the inspector computes a parallel
schedule of the iterations based on dependence information not available at
compile time.  The executor performs the iterations in parallel using this
schedule.


My research in runtime parallelization has touched on both the
inspector and the executor.  I have proposed two ways to speed up the
inspector.  This work appeared in the Fourth ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on
Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming.  The paper is also
available as technical report

92-12-05.  I have also studied various forms
of the executor to improve its performance and extend its applicability to
complex dependence patterns.  (This research is reported in technical
report 

95-01-08.)  My experiments on the KSR1, a shared address space
multiprocessor, show that false sharing and poor spatial locality could
seriously degrade executor performance.  I have proposed and experimentally
evaluated two simple techniques to address these problems by restructuring
arrays according to the parallel execution schedule.  (This research is
reported in technical report 

94-02-01.)





	Shun-Tak A. Leung

	Department of Computer Science & Engineering 

	University of Washington  
  Box 352350 
Seattle, WA 98195-2350 
Email: shuntak@cs.washington.edu
  Fax: (206)543-2969



Last modified: January 8, 1996






