Date: Wed, 08 Jan 1997 21:30:08 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html




Using the GNU Emacs/Common Lisp Interface



Using the GNU Emacs/Common Lisp Interface

Executive Summary: This document is designed to help you get
started using Lisp with emacs on the MSCC accounts.  It isn't a
complete set of what's available to you, but rather is designed to get
you started using a minimal set of useful functions.

Introduction

For the first part of the course you will be programming in Lisp.
Although historically there have been more versions of this language 
than you would even want to know about,  in recent years there 
has been convergence on one language definition:  CommonLisp, 
and there is even a book "Common Lisp: The Language" that is 
considered the Bible of Lisp now.   
 
We will be using an implementation called  Allegro CommonLisp (or 
AllegroCL for short), 
which is one of the more heavy-duty industrial implementations 
out there.  Allegro CL is sold by Franz Incorporated.  (Historical
note:  the origin of the name Franz was because the product was 
originally called Franz Lisp, which people thought was pretty
darned funny at the time.)

One of the nice things about AllegroCL is that it comes with a nice
package for integrating the process of writing and debugging code 
within a single Emacs session.  The basic idea is that you have 
one "process buffer" open in which Lisp is constantly running, 
then one or more "editor buffers" each one of which shows a file 
with some Lisp code in it.   The interface allows you to do things 
like point to a function definition in an editor buffer and send 
it automatically to the Lisp process, get online entries from the 
CommonLisp manual, find out where a particular function is defined 
and automatically pop up an editor window for it, and so on.

It's worth experimenting with this package a bit:  it really 
will make your life a lot easier!  I'll try to show you some 
of the cool features in class too.


 Getting started

To use this environment, you must do the following:

Create a file called .emacs in your home directory (if it doesn't already
exist) and put the following line in it:

    (load "~c341/.emacs")

Create a file called .clinit.cl in your home directory and put 
the following line in it:

    (load "~c341/.clinit.cl")


Now, when you start up emacs to edit a Lisp file (the Lisp file must have
an extension of  .cl or .lisp) you will automatically be put into 
an Emacs mode called "CommonLisp" mode.   This mode will do things 
like balance parentheses and indent your code automatically, and 
will also allow you to send function definitions directly to the 
Lisp process.

For example, typing

    emacs foo.cl 

will open the file foo.cl for editing in a special Common Lisp mode 
buffer that allows you to do things like skip forward and backward
by S-expressions, look up the definition of a symbol in the 
online Common Lisp manual, get a list of what functions call a particular 
function, and so on.


 Important emacs commands to know

NOTE- for the following commands, "C-" means hitting the control key

The following commands work regardless of the mode of your
current Emacs buffer:

 Type C-x C-c to exit emacs. If you have not saved your file, it will
ask you if you want to save it.

 Type C-x C-s to save changes to the current file

 Type C-x C-w to save the current file to a new file - you will be prompted
  for a file name

 Type C-x b to switch to another buffer (that you had already worked
with in this session.

 Type C-x C-f to open another file.

 Type C-x 2 to split the emacs window into two panes.

 Type C-x o to go back and forth between the 2 window.

 Type C-x 1 to go revert the display to a single window.


These commands are special to buffers in "Common Lisp mode," which 
is the mode assigned to any buffer open to a file with an 
extension of .cl:

 Type C-c l to go from your Lisp file to the Lisp interpreter.  This 
will also start up the Lisp interpreter if it is not already running.

 Type C-c e to go from the Lisp interpreter to the Lisp file most
  recently edited

 Type C-c b to send the currrent buffer to the Lisp interpreter to be 
  evaluated.

 Type C-c C-b to do the same thing as C-c b AND switch to the Lisp buffer

 Type C-c d to evaluate the current defun in the Lisp interpreter

 Type C-c c to compile the current defun in the Lisp interpreter

 Type C-c C-a to go to the beginning of the current defun

 Type C-c C-e to go the end of the current defun.
 Type C-c .  (control C followed by a period) to find out where a 
function is defined
 Type ESC-X fi:clman to get the Common Lisp manual entry 
for some symbol.


When you are in the Lisp interpreter buffer, C-c C-p recalls the previous
expression typed to Lisp, and C-c C-n recalls the next expression (if
you are at an earlier one).


 Example

Begin the session by typing "emacs foo.cl". Emacs will start a Lisp
session and display a buffer for editing foo.cl.

Now you can type C-c l to start a Lisp session and put you in it. You
can switch back and forth between the editing buffer and the inferior
Lisp buffer using C-c l as well.

Emacs will prompt you for several things when you first start a Lisp
session: Buffer, Host, Process Directory, Image name, Image arguments.
Most of the time, you should just hit return to take the default values
on all of these questions.

Go back to edit buffer by C-c l. Type the following code, which simply
counts the number of items in a list:

(defun foo(x)
   (cond ((null x) 0)
         ((atom x) 1)
         (t (+ (foo (car x)) (foo (cdr x))))))


Passing this function definition to Lisp either by typing (C-c C-b)
(evaluate the entire buffer) or by putting the cursor somewhere within
foo's function definiton and typing (ESC C-x) (evaluate a single defun).
Either command will send the defun to Lisp interpreter.

Now switch to the Lisp process buffer with: C-c l


Test the function by typing: (foo '(a b c))

When you are done, exit Lisp and Emacs by typing: (exit) and then C-x C-c

 For More Information 
More information about the interface appears in 
in 

         UW CSE Lab Note 162.


Steve Hanks (hanks@cs.washington.edu), 3/19/96

