Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 14:44:06 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html



CSE 521, Project


The Traveling Tourist Problem




It is summer vacation, and you have purchased a Greyhound Bus pass
allowing you unlimited travel.  Can you visit every city in the United
States before your vacation ends?  This is the Traveling tourist problem.


The CSE 521 course project is to implement algorithms for the
Traveling Tourist Problem, and test them out on various data sets.
The  Speedy Tourist Page  keeps track of the
best tours found on each of the problem instances in the project data
set.  The Challenge Page  gives a few
specific challenges, and Lower bound page gives
the best known lower bounds.  Last update: 1/24/96.
Eric Anderson has developed an 

applet to animate tours.


The Traveling Tourist Problem can be viewed as a politically correct
version  of the Traveling Salesman Problem, where travel is
restricted to public transportation.  The TTP is easily shown to be
NP-complete.   An instance
of the Traveling Tourist
Problem is given by providing a schedule, which lists the departure
time each bus.  The schedules are periodic, so it is only necessary to
give a single day's schedule.  The goal is to find a
minimum duration tour which visits every city, and gets back to the
original city.  A tour is allowed to visit the same city multiple
times.  Since the problem is NP-complete, it is unlikely that you can
find an algorithm that efficiently solves large instances.  So it is 
natural to look for approximation algorithms, which find good (but
maybe not optimal tours).  Another option is to implement an
exponential algorithm, and use it to solve small instances of the
problems.  



In this project, you should investigate both approaches for the
Traveling tourist problem.  Try to come up with good approximations,
and also implement branch and bound to solve smaller instances
exactly.  There is a lot of literature on the Traveling salesman
problem, so that suggests a number of approaches.  However, there are
significant differences between the two problems, so it will be
necessary to invent new algorithms.



This project is modelled after various DIMACS Challenges, where researchers 
were invited to implement algorithms to solve specific problems.  An
important aspect of the DIMACS Challenges was a publically available
set of problem instances which made it possible to directly compare
results.  In this challenge, the problem is to do as well as possible
on an NP-complete problem, so the two competitions are to come up with
as good approximations on large instances, and to solve smaller
instances exactly with a branch and bound algorithm.  As far as I
know, this isn't a well studied problem, so there should be a chance
to prove some interesting theorems as well.



 How to Participate 

I welcome participation from outside of my University of Washington, 
CSE 521 class.  The data
files and source code are available from the web.  If you can find
better tours to the official instances, send them to me, and I
will update the hall of fame.  (I hope to automate this soon.)  I will
also keep track of lower bound results on various instances.

  Details  

Here are a few details on exactly how the problem is formulated, and
what a solution is.


  Theory  

I don't know of any results related to this problem (although I haven't 
looked either).  The theory page will contain some useful theorems, as
well as pointers to the literature.  Contributions welcome!





  Data Sets  

The current data sets were randomly generated, although some of them are 
based upon the locations for real cities.  Each instance specifies a
schedule file, a city file, a starting city, and a starting time.
(I would be interested in receiving real data sets to add to set of
instances.)


  Source Code and Support Software  

Some source code is available to "use at your own risk".  This code
handles I/0 and provides some very primitive graphics capabilities.
There is also an algorithm which finds very bad tours.  You can use the
showmap, showsch, and showtour programs to examine the data files.
If you submit a tour, make sure that it conforms to the format of a
tour file.


  Mechanics  

For the CSE 521 course project, there are a few rules, regulations, and 
deadlines.






anderson@cs.washington.edu

