Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 23:13:59 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 06 Jun 1996 18:08:40 GMT
Content-length: 5482



Resume for Lauren Bricker



 Resume for Lauren Bricker


Computer Science & Engineering Department, 
University of Washington, FR-35, 
Seattle, WA 98195 USA
Phone: (206) 543-7798


Interests


Human Computer Interaction (HCI), Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW),
Computer Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL), computer graphics and
animation.  

Experience  1994 - present Senior Software
Engineer Ark Interface,
Seattle, WA    
Assisted in the redesign and implementation of Packard Bell's
Navigator 3.x.  Was soley responsible for design and implementation of
the Game Room. Technical Lead for Kidspace 3.0.
Implementation in Microsoft Visual C++.  Kidspace, Workspace and
Navigator are Ark's document-centered graphical user interfaces for
Microsoft Windows.  

1993 - present
Research Assistant
University of Washington, Seattle, WA


Mathematics
Experiences Through Image
Processing (METIP). Designed Computer Supported Collaborative 
Learning and image processing applications aimed at encouraging Jr. 
High students in mathematics. Applications are written for Microsoft Windows
using the Borland Object Windows Library (OWL), Microsoft Visual C++ and
Visual Basic.  

Resource Facility for Kinetic Analysis (RFKA). Ported the
Simulation, Analysis and Modeling (SAAM) II program from Sun/Open Windows to
Microsoft Windows using Visual C++.  Responsible for determining and
purchasing the development environment.


1988 - present
Owner of a Sole Proprietorship
Brickware, Seattle, WA


Ark Interface, Seattle, WA. Designed and implemented an 
application program interface (API) and common dialog boxes for Ark Kidspace
and Wrokspace, written in Visual C++.

Asymetrix Corporation, Bellevue, WA. Three month
contract to design and implement a reusable Table Object in Microsoft C++.

Saros Corporation, Bellevue, WA.  Designed and implemented
enhancements to the user interface portion of FileShare, a distributed
network file manager for Microsoft Windows. 

Mountain Software, Bothell, WA.  Assisted in the design and
implementation of the user interface portion of SuperTrap, an office
management database on the Macintosh for a translation bureau in Zurich,
Switzerland.   

Proximity Technology, Inc.  Ported spelling checker, hyphenation
and thesaurus code from MS-DOS to Microsoft Windows.  


1990 - 1993
Software Engineer
Adonis Corporation, Bellevue, WA (now ConnectSoft)


Contracted to Space Labs Medical.  Designed and implemented a
Microsoft Windows front end to Holter and Ambulatory Blood Pressure monitors.
The application was written in Visual C++ using the Microsoft Foundation
Classes.   

Technical Lead Engineer for Clip-Art Window Shopper(tm), a
Microsoft Windows application for viewing clip-art images before on-line
purchase.  Design and implementation included: keyword search engine;
information exchange; requesting, storage and retrieval of user information;
and communications via modem.  Also edited Quick Clips, an Adonis newsletter
for Window Shopper customers.

Contracted to Central Point Software. Designed and implemented a
Microsoft Windows version of PC Tools. 


1987 - 1988 
Software Engineer
Caddex Corporation, Woodinville, WA 



Member of a small team developing a networked desktop publishing product
for Microsoft Windows.  Ported the spelling checker, hyphenation, and
thesaurus code written by Proximity Technology, Inc from MS-DOS to Windows.
Designed, coded, tested and integrated the spelling checker, dictionary and
thesaurus user interfaces.  Also designed the table of contents and index
generators. 


1985 - 1987
Software Engineer
Boeing Company, Seattle, WA


Defined software requirements for the Flight Path Management and
Navigation functions of the Advanced Tactical Fighter project.  
Prototyped these functions in  Ada on a DEC VAX/VMS system.

Education

1990 - present
University of Washington,  Seattle, WA


Received Masters of Science Degree in Computer Science and Engineering in
December, 1993.  GPA 3.5  / 4.0. 
Doctoral candidate in Computer Science and Engineering, expected
Fall 1996. 


1982 - 1985
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI


Bachelor of Science degree in Theoretical Mathematics with Honors, with a
minor in Pre-Med.  GPA 3.6 / 4.0. 

Hardware, Operating System, and Computer Languages

Apple Macintosh, DEC VAX and MIPS machines, Sun SPARCstations, IBM
PC; Macintosh OS, MS-DOS, MS Windows, UNIX, DEC VMS; Ada, Assembly,
BASIC, C, C++, HTML, Java, Lisp, Modula-2, Perl, Prolog, Self, Smalltalk, HyperCard.


 

  bricker@cs.washington.edu 
  Last modified: Tue Jan 18 5:00:00 PM PST 1994


