Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 03:34:02 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 26 Jan 1995 02:19:32 GMT
Content-length: 4848





Implementing multi-level queries in a database environment for
  vision research






     
 Next: Contents
  

Implementing multi-level queries in a database environment for
  vision research
Rex Jakobovits, Linda Shapiro, Steven Tanimoto 
  Department of Computer Science and Engineering, FR-35University of WashingtonSeattle, Washington 98195

Abstract:
  The Database Environment for Vision Research (DEVR) is an
  entity-oriented scientific database system based on a hierarchical
  relational data model (HRS).  This paper describes the design and
  implementation of the data definition language, the application
  programmer's interface, and the query mechanism of the DEVR system.

  DEVR provides a dynamic data definition language for modeling image
  and vision data, which can be integrated with existing image
  processing and vision applications.  Schema definitions can be fully
  interleaved with data manipulation, without requiring recompilation.
  In addition, DEVR provides a powerful application programmer's
  interface that regulates data access and schema definition,
  maintains indexes, and enforces type safety and data integrity.

  The system supports multi-level queries based on recursive
  constraint trees.  A set of HRS entities of a given type is filtered
  through a network of constraints corresponding to the parts,
  properties, and relations of that type.  Queries can be constructed
  interactively with a menu-driven interface, or they can be
  dynamically generated within a vision application using the
  programmer's interface.  Query objects are persistent and reusable.
  Users may keep libraries of query templates, which can be built
  incrementally, tested separately, cloned, and linked together to
  form more complex queries.


 

 Contents
  INTRODUCTION
  THE HRS DATA MODEL

  Components of the HRS
  Example application: TRIBORS

  IMPLEMENTING THE HRS

  The Schema class
  The Entity class

  APPLICATION PROGRAMMER'S INTERFACE
  THE QUERY SYSTEM

  Query model: constraint trees
  Implementation of the query model

  Conclusion
 References
  About this document ... 

 also available in postscript 
 

 Rex Jakobovits 
Mon Jan 16 19:29:35 PST 1995


