Date: Mon, 02 Dec 1996 14:47:19 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html



CSE 451 - Autumn 1995: Syllabus



CSE 451
Introduction toOperating Systems
Autumn 1996

Course Admin


Instructor:
  Brian Bershad 
(cse451-instructor@cs.washington.edu) 

Lecture
MWF 11:30 - 12:20 in Low 102

Office Hours
TBA



Teaching Assistant
Sung-Eun Choi
(cse451-TA@cs.washington.edu)  

Sections
A: Thursdays 12:30 - 1:20 in Low 217
B: Thursdays 1:30 - 2:30 in Low 118
Office Hours
W 12:30 - 1:20 in Sieg 326A


Please send mail to majordomo@cs with
subscribe cse451 in the body of the message to subscribe to
the course mailing list.  
Texts
  Operating System Concepts  (4th Edition) by Silberschatz
   and Galvin
 Also known as the dinosaur book.  
Currently available in the bookstore.  A pretty common book, so you
may be able to pick up a used copy without a lot of trouble.

You might also want to pick up a book on C that suits your tastes.

 
 
I will try to make several copies of the main textbook available for loan 
in the engineering library.


Computer Accounts
You should have an account on the CSE instructional machines (lynx, wolf, 
grizzly). If you do not, see the CSE main office for a form.



Computer Software

You'll need to know how to use several pieces of software in this class.

 The UNIX operating system shell.
 mail, grep, ls, etc.


 The Web

 You already know enough about the web to have gotten to this
point.  

Everyone in this class should set up their own home page if they
haven't done so already.  The details of getting that page linked into
the class web will be announced shortly.

 Programming utilities.

 You'll need to know how to use tools like the C compiler, make,
  and a debugger (either dbx or gdb) in order to do the programming
  assignment.  You'll also need to become facile with an editor; I
  recommend you use emacs.  You're be on your own for using these
tools; we'll not be spending any time in lecture on them.


Grading
Your course grade will consist of four components:

 Projects (30%)
 Quizzes (5%)
 Your midterm score (20%)
 Your final exam score (40%)
 Course participation (5%)


The midterms and
the final exams will draw material from the homeworks, so it is
criticial that you understand them.

Turning stuff in late
Please don't.  We will not accept late turnins.

Is there room for me in this class?
I don't know.  If you don't currently have an entry code, you should
file a petition for entry with the front office.  Please do not come
to me to ask for a signature on this, as I can only redirect your
request to the front office.  If, at the end of the entry period,
there are fewer students remaining enrolled than the maximum
enrollment of this course, then some of the petitions will be granted.

Why not just take everybody?
I'd like to admit everybody who wants to take this class, but I'm
unfortunately bound by certain resource constraints. These include:
available seating, computing resources and grading resources.  


If you're not admitted into the course this term, then you will need
to take the course another quarter.



The Reasonable Person Principle
This principle (which applies throughout this course) simply states
that a reasonable request made in a reasonable fashion shall
be reasonably handled by reasonable persons.  

 Sung and I are both reasonable persons, and we expect that
everyone else involved in this class is as well.

A word of warning on cheating
Please don't.  Concern about cheating creates an unpleasant
environment for everyone.  I don't do a lot to prevent cheating, since
preventative measures have huge costs and low return. My policy on
cheating is simple: if I discover that it has occurred, you fail the
assignment, and possibly the course.





cse451-webmaster@cs.washington.edu

