Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 22:50:38 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 18 Oct 1996 18:44:03 GMT
Content-length: 7679



Brian Kris Grant: Work Background


Work Background
Phased Compilation

 I'm in
my third year of graduate school at the UW.  I am now starting to explore
the new area of phased
compilation, with Susan
Eggers as my advisor, and am part of the UW
Dynamic Compilation Group.  Phased compilation encompasses such
ideas as partial
evaluation, incremental specialization, run-time
code generation, and dynamic
compilation (these concepts overlap).  I plan to do my generals
and my thesis in this area, and hope to graduate around the time our
new building is
completed (or soon after).

Other Interests
In addition to phased compilation, lately I've been interested in
extensible
operating systems and distributed
systems.  This past spring, I read up on techniques for creating
and exploiting instruction-level
parallelism (ILP).  Many of the papers came from the IMPACT group at UIUC.

In the past I've been interested in parallel
programming languages and environments, parallel algorithms, and scientific computing.
I'm also concerned about the impact of
computing technologies on society.

Collective Communication
In spring 1995, I finished my quals project under Richard
Ladner, Design and Analysis of Collective-Communication
Primitives.  I have a few more ideas that I'm exploring in this
area and I should have a paper available later this year.

GAPP
In my second year, I also did a cool
project with Eric Anderson for
the distributed
and parallel systems course.  It was a general-purpose,
user-programmable, kernel-resident packet processor (boy, what a
mouthful!).  It was a good idea, but its performance suffered a little
due to a massive, sparse switch statement that was converted to a
series of tests and branches by the compiler.  We never had time to
rewrite it and collect some real times, but we're sure they would have
been great.  Actually, dynamic compilation would have been ideal for
this application.  We also had some other ideas for optimizing the
computation of which packet processors should execute on a given
packet, but development on SPIN's
networking framework was beginning by the end of the quarter, so
we didn't bother to pursue it further.

Teaching
During my first year at UW, when my office
was in Sieg, I was a teaching assistant, first for CSE/ENGR-142,
the first-semester programming course (when it was in Ada), then for
CSE-451,
the undergraduate operating systems course.  Now, my office is in The
Chateau, and I am supported by a NSF Graduate
Fellowship.

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

I spent three summers at Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory.  My first summer at LLNL, I studied
cluster message-passing systems, mainly PVM.  During the next two
summers, while working on my main project, a parallel climate model, I
looked into MPI,
even attending one of the MPI Forums in Dallas.  I gave a tutorial on MPI at LLNL, and
later another at Boeing Computing
Services.


The climate model I worked on was a parallel global climate model
called the Earth System Model (ESM).  The ESM
is a framework for supporting parallel global climate modeling.  The
requirements of the ESM project are that the model be transportable,
scalable, and modular.  The transportability of the code was deemed to
be crucial, as this would allow the group to take advantage of the
latest, most powerful multicomputers available.  I ported the code to
MPI, instrumented the code for post-mortem performance evaluation
using ParaGraph,
Upshot, Pablo, or some of my
own tools, and worked on building a library of portable
collective-communication routines.

Purdue
 I got my undergraduate degree in computer science and mathematics at Purdue University.  My senior year I
was president of the Purdue Student Chapter of
the ACM.  I also helped start a UPE chapter, and
served as the chapter's second president.  Additionally, I helped to
resurrect the defunct math club by serving
as its treasurer, then vice president, and by helping to make it a
student chapter of the Mathematical
Association of America.




Department of Computer Science and Engineering
University of Washington
Box 352350
Seattle, WA 98195-2350
Office: Guggenheim Annex 115 (The
Chateau)
Phone: (206) 616-1854 
Fax: (206) 543-2969 
At school, I use a SGI Indy.




Last updated August 30, 1996.
Brian Kris Grant (grant@cs.washington.edu)



