Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 20:45:51 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 01 Sep 1996 22:38:40 GMT
Content-length: 3978


Short bio - Marc Langheinrich


Short bio - Marc Langheinrich
Short bio

I was born in February 1971 in Frankfurt/M, Germany. After 13 years of
schooling I got my Abitur from the Albert-Einstein-Gymnasium, Maintal,
majoring in physiscs and math.
After one year of civil service, where I served as a helper for handicapped
persons as well as working in a kindergarten for handicapped children, I
started my studies at the University of Bielefeld, Germany. The Department
of Computer Science (Technische Fakultät) offers an interesting new
program, called Computer Science in Natural Sciences
(Naturwissenschaftliche Informatik), which tries to combine applications in
physics, biology and chemistry with the theory of computer science.
My main field of interest lies in the field of artificial intelligence, and
in particular in building intelligent agents. Here at the University of
Washington, Prof. Oren Etzioni built such an agent, the Internet Softbot,
which helps the user using the resources of the Internet more efficiently.
I worked for two years as a teaching assistant (Tutor) in the computer
science department in Bielefeld, before I joined the programming group of
the University Library, where I created user applications for DOS/Windows
and set up a World-Wide Web server in 1995.

In January 1994 I applied for a scholarship from the Fulbright Commission,
and got finally accepted for full-tuition / partial-living-expenses grant in
spring 1995.
I work here together with Jonathan Shakes and Professor Etzioni on 
Ahoy! the Homepagefinder, an internet agent that helps users
finding specific homepages on the world wide web.
After this year as a visiting graduate student in the department of
computer science at the University of Washington, I am about to finish my
master degree (Diplom) back in Bielefeld, Germany.
I am planning to go abroad again after recieving my degree in Germany,
preferably to Japan, where my girlfriend is currently 
working for Leo Burnett Advertisement in Tokyo.
Some Links mentioned in the text:

University of Bielefeld, Germany
General Information

Faculty of Technology (Technische Fakultät)

Naturwissenschaftliche Informatik
University Library 
Web-Server

University of Washington, Seattle, USA

General Information
Department of Computer
Science
Internet Softbot
Ahoy! the
Homepagefinder
Professor
Etzioni's homepage

Other Links
Map of Germany (257k or
123k JPEG)
Fulbright Commission
Leo Burnett Advertisement



Marc Langheinrich

 The University of Washington, Department of Computer Science
 Email: marclang@cs.washington.edu
 WWW: 
http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/marclang/



