Date: Wed, 08 Jan 1997 20:51:55 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html




CSE 322  
Remarks on Problem 5 from the Midterm
Winter Quarter, 1996







    
 Next:    About this document 
  

CSE 322  
Remarks on Problem 5 from the Midterm
Winter Quarter, 1996



Consider the grammar G with start symbol S and productions

Suppose instead that we had asked you to prove that  has an equal number of a's as b's.  Applying the definition of 
, this means we would like to prove the following two facts:
 For all , if x has an equal number of a's and b's
then .
 For all , if  then x has an equal 
number of a's and b's.

The first of these two statements is what you were asked to show in question 5
from the midterm. To show the first statement, your proof needs to be structured as follows:

 Given: any  where x has an equal number of a's and b's.

 Prove: that there exists  some derivation .

In your proof, you've been handed a string x and all that you know about it 
is that it has an equal number of a's and b's.  That's why in this case, 
we choose to do an induction on the length of x.  You can't do an induction
on derivation length here because it is not known whether x can be derived
from S (That's what you're attempting to prove).

The exam instructions noted one fact that we have about x: since x has
an equal number of a's and b's, it must be of even length, that is, 
|x| = 2n where n is the number of a's (also, the number of b's).
So what we're really doing here is an induction on n.

The base case is when n=0 and so .  Since there is a production
, certainly  can be derived in one step, and
so the base case holds.

For the inductive hypothesis, we only have two choices here: should we use
normal induction or strong induction?  We don't really know which to use 
until we do the rest of the proof, so I'll list them both:
 (normal) For any x where  and x has an equal number of
a's and b's, .
 (strong) For any x where x < 2n and x has an equal number of
a's and b's, .

Assume the inductive hypothesis is true and that you have been given
some string  that has an equal number of a's and b's
where |x| = 2n.  What does x look like?  The hint given in the exam is
to consider whether or not x has a non-trivial prefix (not x or )
with an equal number of a's and b's.  The reason we do this, as we see in 
the solutions, is that if it does have a non-trivial prefix with an equal 
number of a's and b's, then x is a concatenation of two smaller strings 
with equal numbers of a's and b's.  With that, we can invoke the 
 strong inductive hypothesis, to say that these two smaller strings
can be derived from S.  Thus x can be derived from S using 
 as the first production in the derivation.  We used strong
induction here, so this means we should use the second hypothesis listed above 
to answer 5b) on the exam.

So in the case  where x has a non-trivial prefix with an equal number of 
a's and b's we have shown that .  We need to handle
every x, though, so what about the case where x doesn't have any such 
prefix?  There are two sub-cases to consider:
 The string x begins with an a, but there is no matching b for this 
a until the very last character b.  Thus, x = awb for some 
string w of length 2n -2.
 The string x begins with an b, but there is no matching a for this 
b until the very last character a.  Thus, x = bwa for some 
string w of length 2n -2.

In each of these cases, w is a string of length less than 2n and
has an equal number of a's and b's.  At this point, you should be able to
complete the proof by invoking the induction hypothesis and reasoning about 
the other two productions.

Notice how in the above arguments, we argued that x was derivable in the
grammar based entirely on what we were given: the fact that 
and x had an equal number of a's and b's.  From this we reasoned about 
what x might look like: it had some even length 2n, and it may or may
not have had a prefix with an equal number of a's and b's.  To handle all
the possibilities of n, we did a proof by induction on n.  We handled 
whether
or not x had a prefix with an equal number of a's and b's as subcases
within the induction.  This covered all the bases, so we proved it for all x.

What about if we wanted to prove statement 2)?  In this case the proof would 
be structured as follows:

 Given: any  where .

 Prove: that x has an equal number of a's and b's.

Here, what you're given and what you're asked to prove are flipped.  You're
told that x can be derived from S in some number of steps, that is,
that  for some .  Since you're given 
that x is derivable in i steps, it is perfectly legal to do an
induction on i, the length of the derivation, to prove
that x has an equal number of a's and b's.
I'll leave this proof as an exercise.  What are the three derivation cases 
you will use for this proof?  Do you need strong induction here?  What's
the base case?

 

    About this document ... 

    
 Next:    About this document 
  
 

James Fix 
Wed Feb  7 14:58:33 PST 1996


