Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 03:44:06 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.1
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 23:42:28 GMT
Content-length: 6621




Peter Wyckoff's Home Page




Peter Wyckoff

Ph.D. Student, 4th year

Department of Computer Science

Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences

New York University
251 Mercer Street
New York, NY 10012







Bandalier National Park, New Mexico





Contents

 Brief Biography
 Resume

 html


 Research Interests
 Publications
 Contact Information






Brief Biography
I am a Ph.D. candidate at the
Computer Science Department of the
Courant Institute of 
Mathematical Sciences
of New York University.
I received a B.S. in computer science from 
SUNY Stony Brook in 1993 and
an M.S. in computer science from NYU in 1995.
I grew up in New York City and attended
The Day School,
City and Country, and finally Trinity.




 Research Interests
I am interested in the theoretical and practical ways to address
fault-tolerant computing where  response time is critical.


The main area of my research is in "lite-transactions",
which have some of the properties of transactions, but are
very light weight.
Traditional transactions have properties (ACID) which are
useful for fault-tolerance, but traditional transactions are too expensive
to be practical in many areas.
Previous  light-weight
transactions (e.g. group commit ) have addressed increased
server throughput.  However, the increased throughput has been
achieved at the expense of increased client response time.  In many
situations, such as in real-time systems, this tradeoff is not
desirable or even practical.
Unlike traditional transactions,
Lite-transactions do not commit to disk.  Rather they commit to
memory. This makes them very light, allows them to provide
temporal guarantees that traditional systems can't, and
makes them applicable when response time guarantees are needed.

If a server(s) fails,
committed lite-transactions may be lost. In this case, the system is
recovered from the last checkpoint.  
Due to their volatile nature, lite-transactions pose a challenge
for low overhead, non-client blocking, distributed checkpointing.
I have developed an efficient checkpointing algorithm for 
Lite-transactions which is non-blocking for clients and requires
very little synchronization for servers.


We have applied lite-transactions to the Linda model.  Linda may be
used to harness the aggregate power of networks of workstations.
However, Linda is not fault-tolerant and Linda
processes can become obtrusive when a user finds her
machine busy with someone else's processes and the Piranha system
can only be used for a limited types of applications. 


We have a working prototype of a system called 
Persistent Linda
where
we apply lite-transactions to the Linda model.  Persistent Linda may
be used to harness the aggregate power of networks of workstations in
an unobtrusive manner: processes are automatically killed (ie kill -9 pid)
on one machine and restarted elsewhere. The fault-tolerance
mechanisms built on lite-transactions allow processes to recover from
their last commit point.  In fact, the type (architecture) of the
originating machine and the final destination machine can be
different.  
he fact that processes can be migrated independently
is crucial to utilizing networks of workstations for parallel
applications.

I have worked extensively on the current version of the prototype
which is approximately 20,000 lines of C++.
This includes designing and implementing no overhead locking for degree 2 lite-transactions,
designing and implementing buffered writes and piggybacked transactions operations, 
re-implementing the tuple data structure for more efficiency and portability,
and re-implementing the communication library for portability.



Another project I am working on
is to provide transparent shared memory, fault tolerance, and a runtime
system capable of running efficiently on highly unpredictable networks
(e.g. the WWW)
for Java.
With this type of language and runtime system, programmers have a rich
environment to write applications in.




Publications
Peter Wyckoff. Achieving High Performance and Robustness for Parallel Software on Loosely-Coupled Systems. A Survey and Thesis Proposal, November 1995(PostScript). 

Arash Baratloo, Mehmet Karaul, Zvi Kedem, Peter Wyckoff. Charlotte: Metacomputing on the Web.   Ninth International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems,  September 1996. (PostScript). 

Tom Brown, Karpjoo Jeong, Bin Li, Dennis Shasha, Peter Wyckoff.
;Persistent Linda User Manual. NYU Department of Computer Science Technical
Report,  December 1996,   to appear. 

Karpjoo Jeong, Dennis Shasha, Suren Talla, Peter Wyckoff.
An Approach to Fault Tolerant Parallel Processing
on Intermittently Idle, Heterogeneous  Workstations.
submitted to The Twenty-Seventh International Symposium on
Fault-Tolerant Computing.







Contact Information
Office
719 Broadway, Room 706
New York, NY 10012
(212)998-3523

Home
(212)799-4817


Email: wyckoff@cs.nyu.edu

Finger: wyckoff@slinky.cs.nyu.edu






