Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 03:45:37 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.1
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tue, 28 May 1996 15:26:13 GMT
Content-length: 3370



Aris Floratos





Aris Floratos


Ph.D. student  
 Department of Computer Science
 Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences
New York University
251 Mercer Street
New York, NY 10012, U.S.A.
Rm #523
Phone: 212-998-3120 
Email:  floratos@cs.nyu.edu 

 Brief Biography I was born in Greece and
	 bred under the glorious mediterranean sun (for those unaware of the experience,
	 seeing the movie "Il Postino" might be a good introduction). As I grew older
	 I came to realize that people actually expected of me to get an education (what
	 a nerve!). Lacking the guts to go against established beliefs, I decided that the 
	 least I could do was choose something fun. So, I entered the 
	 Computer Science and Engineering 
	 Department 
	 at the 
	 
	 University of Patras 
	 and, somehow, I managed to get
	 a Bachelor's degree (1991). After that I stayed around for a couple of years, mainly
	 working in EEC-funded research projects (if you are in the mood you can check my
	 resume for more info). At some point, though, 
	 I developed an uncontrollable desire
	 to learn more about CS and I thought that pursuing graduate studies at the US was
	 the only medicine. Following my insticts, I arrived in NY at the beggining of
	 1993 and, since then, I have been attending the PhD program of the Computer Science
	 Dept. in NYU - getting a MSc degree (1995) in the way. The whole experience has been
	 a great trip up to now and I hope that it will continue along the same tracks. One
	 thing I can say for sure is this: WOW! IT CAN REALLY SNOW IN THIS COUNTRY.....

	 
Research Related Stuff

	 I spend a good part of my time working (under the supervision and with the help
	 of my advisor  Prof. Ravi 
	 Boppana) in the area of on-line algorithms. We mostly
	 look at scheduling problems and try to quantify (in the framework of competitive
	 analysis) the performance of various algorithms. I am particularly interested in
	 exploiting the power (and understanding the limits) of randomization in the
	 context of both on-line and off-line problems. 
	 Some other parts of Computer Science that I find exiting and I am trying to
	 explore further are:

	
 Combinatorics and Graph Theory
	 Linear Programming
	 Approximation Algorithms for Hard Problems
	

Bookmark List
A friend once told me that the shortest way into someone's mind is through his/her
bookmark list.... Very conveniently, 
it is also the most effortless (no trying to come up with
clever lines about exquisite hobbies and unbelievably cool extra-cirricular activities).
So, see if you can figure me out from mine.....


Page last modified on May 24 1996.



