Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 22:12:10 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4505
Last-modified: Thu, 11 Apr 1996 19:29:28 GMT




Charles Patterson



  <!-- Keywords:  photo-realism, photorealism, large datasets, large data sets,
		  radiosity, 3D graphics, hierarchical model, level of detail,
		  multiple resolution model
  >

  





Charles Patterson


      For more detailed information, please see my
      resume.
   








Education



    I'm a PhD student in the
    Graphics, Visualization, and Usability Center
    of the
    College of Computing

    at the
    Georgia Institute of Technology.
 
    I received my B.S. in Computer Science from
    Baylor University
    in
    1989 and an M.S. in Information and Computer Science from
    Georgia Tech
    in 1990.
  
   

Research



    My official research interest is photo-realism in computer graphics -
    particularly, how to render complex environments in a
    feasible amount of time.  This has lead to the thesis proposal 
    "The Efficient
       Rendering of Synthetic Images Using Primitive Hierarchies."

    I co-authored a paper in this area - 
    "Geometric
       Simplification for Indirect Illumination Calculations."
   
   

Other Interests



    In my spare time, I like to write and perform music.  I play
    guitar mostly; but I also like to compose on keyboards, using a Mac for
    sequencing and a Proteus for sampled play back.  I am currently band-less!

    

    I also play and design (but mostly play) video games.  Lots and lots of video games.
    Soon, my group and I will release a  "total conversion" for Doom II called "STRAIN"
    complete with new graphics, sounds, music, levels, enemies, weapons, etc.  I will
    post more when it is closer to ready!
  
    
  
    I'm also keeping a list of 
    products
    you won't know how you lived without.
   
    
  
    Finally, I refuse to have a "list of urls I recommend" section; but,
    my brother, for some reason,
    likes to keep a "list of urls my brother recommended" section, so I guess
    that's just as good.  (This may be broken right now.)
  
    





Related Home Pages










Charles Patterson

   c/o College of Computing
   801 Atlantic Drive
   Georgia Institute of Technology
   Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0280
   email: charliep@cc.gatech.edu




