Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 02:45:42 GMT
Last-modified: Monday, 18-Nov-96 14:58:23 GMT
Content-length: 5015
Content-type: text/html




 Ju-Yeon Jo's Home Page




Welcome to Ju-Yeon Jo's home page 


My daughter, Danyoung Ada Kim.  

She is named from 

Byron King, Ada, Countess of Lovelace - The first computer programmer.
 
ADA, 
Programing Language, is also named after Byron King, Ada.

Want to see my pictures? click here. 




I am a Ph.D candidate in the Computer
Science and Engineering Department at 
Case Western Reserve University and 
a research assistant at the Center for
Automation and Intelligent Systems Research (CAISR).  
I got my M.S degree from the University of 
Connecticut, specializing in Computer Graphics and Image Processing.

Research Areas


Software Engineering, 3D Graphical Simulation, Virtual Reality.



Current Project


Currently working as part of an interdisciplinary team to design and build 
a prototype agile manufacturing system. Developed software using 
V+ operating system and programming language provided with the Adept
MV controller. Implementing 3D graphical simulations of the 
AGILE MANUFACTURING
workcell using TELEGRIP on Silicon Graphics Indigo2.



Recent Publications

 Journal Papers:

 "An Agile Manufacturing Workcell Design" with Roger Quinn et al.,
IIE Transactions. (To be published in an upcoming issue.)  

Conference Papers:

 "A New Role of Graphical Simulation: Software Testing" 
with Yoohwan Kim, Scott Ameduri, and Andy Podgurski. 
30th Annual Simulation Symposium, April, 1997, Atlanta, Georgia. (submitted)
 
 "Virtual Testing of Agile Manufacturing Software Using 3D Graphical 
Simulation" with Yoohwan Kim, Andy Podgurski, and Wyatt Newman.
1997 IEEE Internation Conference on Robotics and Automation, April, 1997,
Albuquerque, New Mexico.  (submitted)
 
 "A Flexible Software Architecture for Agile Manufacturing" with 
Yoohwan Kim et al., 
1997 IEEE Internation Conference on Robotics and Automation, April, 1997,
Albuquerque, New Mexico.  (submitted)
 
 "Advances in Agile Manufacturing." with Frank Merat et al.,
1997 IEEE Internation Conference on Robotics and Automation, April, 1997,
Albuquerque, New Mexico.  (submitted)
 
 "Design of an Agile Manufacturing Workcell for Light Mechanical 
Applications" with Roger Quinn et al., 1996 IEEE Robotics and 
Automation Conference Proceedings, Minneapolis, Minnesota April, 1996. 
 

Video Conference Papers:

 "Video : Advances in Agile Manufacturing." with Roger Quinn et al.,
1997 IEEE Internation Video Conference on Robotics and Automation, April, 1997,
Albuquerque, New Mexico.  (submitted)
 
 "Agile Manufacturing Workcell for Light Mechanical Assembly" 
with Roger Quinn et al., 1996 IEEE Robotics and Automation Conference Video 
Proceedings, Minneapolis, Minnesota April, 1996.




Other Links



My better-half, Yoohwan 
Kim  


Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML) Forum. 
 


Welcome to WebSpace: SGI's VRML Home Page.
 


Deneb Robotics, Inc.: A company for Factory Simulation, Telerobotic, and
Virtual Reality Software. 
 


SILMA: A Division of Adept Technology, Inc. for Graphical Simulation
 


1996 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation .
 

Women in Computer Sciences
 

Korean Graduate Students 
Association at CWRU
 


WWW Servers in Korea




This page is maintained by Ju-Yeon Jo.(
jyj@pris.eeap.cwru.edu) 
Last updated at Sep. 29, 1996



