Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 22:14:22 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6320
Last-modified: Tue, 19 Mar 1996 23:03:05 GMT



Colleen M. Kehoe (19-Mar-1996)




Colleen M. Kehoe


Do not seek to follow
in the footsteps of the
men of old; seek what
they sought.

- Basho


I'm currently a Ph.D. student in the Graphics, Visualization, and Usability (GVU) Center in the College of Computing at Georgia Tech.  I graduated in 1994 with a B.S. in Computer Science from Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, NJ.  While I was at Stevens, I was in the Co-Op program, so I've had the chance to work at a variety of companies:


IBM (Poughkeepsie, NY) - TSO/E Development & Testing
AT&T Bell Laboratories
(Murray Hill, NJ) - Electroacoustics Research Tools
Dialogic Corp. (Piscataway, NJ) - PBX Tone Collection System
AT&T Bell Laboratories (Murray Hill, NJ) - Application Level Security for Distributed Systems
AT&T Bell Laboratories (Murray Hill, NJ) - Handwriting Recognition Project

Current Projects

GVU's WWW User Surveys
 In our spare time, Jim Pitkow and I have been working on these surveys.  Results from the Fourth Survey are now available.
My most recent survey-related effort is working on a prototype in Java.  Beta coming soon.

 Multimedia Courseware for Computer Science Education
 For this project, we're designing a large set of web pages (and tools
for creating & organizing them) that will be a resource for an introductory
graphics course.  The pages aren't quite ready for public consumption, but
should be soon.  

 Educational Applications of Visualizations
 I'm continuing a project I started this summer with John Stasko to
evaluate the use of animation in teaching algorithms.  Here's an online
version of a section of Corman, Leiserson, and Rivest's explanation of
binomial heaps with a few animations thrown in. Sorry, CoC folks only.
 Local Java Efforts
 I am (attempting to) maintain a page that points to some of the Java
applets done by students here at Tech.

 Cyberguide
 My newest project is working on Cyberguide with Gregory Abowd and the
FCE bunch.  I figured I'd better do something with that Newton I bought.
(Ha ha.)

Previous On-Line Projects

 Educational Software Design (CS8113G): Call the Fire Department!: Tech Students Learn to Cook


Loads of Links
Okay, maybe not loads, but some.

Privacy & Policy

Stop The Communications Decency Act

Star Trek

Star Trek: The Next Generation (ST:TNG)
Star Trek

Theater

Other Theater Opportunites

Food and Drink

Snapple Home Page
Welcome to the Land of Snapple!
A List of Food and Cooking Sites

Fun & Strange

2.13.61 Publications Website
Negativworldwidewebland
The cathouse.org Urban Legends Archive
The Keirsey Temperament Sorter
TV Bytes: WWW TV Themes Home Page : By Patrick G. Kenny
The McCollough Effect - Fun with the Visual Processing System
Gyuto Tantric Choir
Code of the Geeks
The Monkees Home Page
The One Book List
Joseph Wu's Origami Page
(Bob Allison's Home Page) Uncle Bob's Kid's Page
Shakespeare Globe USA start page
Streams and Brian Present Piercing Mildred

People

Joe D'Andrea

Stevens

Stevens Institute of Technology
The Stute Homepage




 Note: the words "cool", "stuff", and "surf" do not appear in this page.


colleen@cc.gatech.edu
College of Computing
Georgia Institute of Technology
Atlanta, GA 30332-0280



