Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 20:18:01 GMT
Server: Stronghold/1.3 Ben-SSL/1.3 Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 9546
Last-modified: Mon, 06 Jan 1997 20:14:01 GMT




CS244a Programming Assignment Rules and Guidelines

CS244a Programming Assignment Rules and Guidelines

This page will give you information about what we expect from you for the
CS244a programming projects. Please read it carefully before starting
the first project.

Background
Although the topic of CS244a is networking, the programming projects assume a good
deal of background with Unix. You will need solid experience with the C programming
language and at least a working knowledge of Unix file I/O, process management, and signals
in order to do the programming assigments. If you are not sure you have 
the necessary skills, please talk to one of the course staff in the first week of
classes to find out if you should defer taking CS244a until later in your
curriculum.

Implementation Rules
All projects are to be coded in ANSI C. If you are unsure of the differences between
ANSI and K&R C, there are a number of books available at the bookstore on ANSI C.

We expect good coding style throughout. This includes good functional decompostion,
useful comments, and meaningful variable names. Function header comments are
required. Following these rules is to your advantage as 20 out of 100 points on
each assigment constitute a style grade (see Grading Policies below).

All of the assignments are designed to be implemented on the Leland cluster in Sweet 
Hall. Your programs must compile and run on both the SPARC Solaris machines (epicxx)
and the DEC OSF/1 machines (amyxx). We will be testing your programs on both platforms.
You may develop on any platform you like, as long as your program 
also runs on these two platforms.

At times there will be ambiguities in the assignment specifications, or multiple ways
an assignment can be implemented. As CS244a is an engineering 
class, we expect you to make reasonable design decisions in these cases. Base your
decisions on what you know of the assignment as a whole. The TA's may give you
advice on the tradeoffs of these decisions, but will not make them for you.

Tools
There are several tools on the Leland systems that can make your life considerably
easier. 

make is a utility used to conditionally recompile your program based on the timestamps
of the source code, object files, and executable. We expect that everyone in the class
will have seen a makefile before as they are a permanent fixture of every flavor of
Unix and most other platforms. If you don't know how to use make or write
a makefile, learn. We require a makefile to be submitted with each assignment.

gdb is the GNU debugger. gdb is an interactive, source-level debugger. It allows
you to trace through your code as it executes and examine program state. If your program
seg faults, it will show you where. Learning to use gdb effectively will save you many
hours of debugging hell. 

To compile with gdb, simply add the '-g' flag to the gcc command. You can then start
gdb with your program with the command
gdb progname
Type 'help' from the gdb prompt for more information.

Purify is a development tool from Pure Software. It checks your program at
run-time for many common errors. Among other things, it checks for memory leaks,
references to uninitialized or illegal addresses, and invalid parameters passed to
system calls. To use Purify, simple preface the command which links your program
with 'purify'. For example:
purify gcc -o myprogram main.o client.o netio.o
When you run your program, Purify will start itself in a separate X window and show
you diagnostics.

Here is a sample Makefile which illustrates all of the 
above options.

Deliverables
There are two expected deliverables with each assignment. The first is the source
code of your implementation. This should include a makefile which builds a program
of the name specified in the assignment in the current directory. It is important
to adhere to this requirement as some of the assignments are tested by shell scripts
and must be graded by hand if your makefile is wrong. If you do not know how to 
write a makefile, look in the class directory for a sample.

The second deliverable is a project writeup. This file should be called README (all caps)
if your writeup is a straight text file or README.html if your writeup is in HTML.
The submit program will not accept your assignment unless one of these files is present.
and should reside in the same directory as your source code when you submit. This file
should contain the following:

An overview of the structure of your code.
Any design decisions you made and a short justification for them. If you found
ambiguities in the assignment itself, also list here how they were resolved in your
implementation.
Answers to any questions the assignment asks.

Submission
All projects will be submitted electronically. The submit script requires the following
to be true:


The current directory must contain a file called Makefile
The current directory must contain a file called either README or README.html
There must be at least one file with an extension of .c.


If there are any additional required files, these will be listed in the assignment 
specification and the submit script will check for them as well.

If these conditions are true, the script will submit the required files and all other files
with an extension of .c or .h in the current directory. Subdirectories
will not be submitted. Everything needed to compile and run your project should be
in the current directory.

In order to submit your assignment, enter the following command:
/usr/class/cs244a/bin/submit assn#
where assn# is the assignment number; i.e. 1, 2, 3, or 4. 



Honor Code
We will enforce adherence to the Stanford Honor Code as it applies to programming
assignments. You may use publicly available code from other sources as long as the
source is noted in the code. Be aware, however, that copying code from the Stevens
book verbatim is dangerous as not all of the code is strictly ANSI. You may discuss
the projects with your fellow students, however; you may NOT work together with
other students or use code written by another student in your assignment. If you
have any questions about the honor code, please ask one of the course staff. Honor
code violations are not a laughing matter at Stanford and it is much better to ask
what might seem like a silly question than to risk your academic career.

Grading Policies
Each assigment is graded from a total of 100 points. All assignments will be
weighted equally in your final grade. 80 points of the grade will be functionality 
points and will measure how well your assignment meets the specifications given
in the assignment handout. The remaining 20 points grade the style of your code
as specified above. While the functionality points may be contested if you
think your code was misgraded, the style points are subjective and may not 
be contested.

As a rule late assignments will not be accepted. Only Professor McKeown can
grant individual exceptions to this rule; please do not ask the TA's for 
extensions. In general extensions will only be granted for serious reasons
such as a family medical emergency. At times there are system problems with
the Leland cluster which may prevent you from completing your assignment on
time. In these cases an extension will generally be granted to the entire
class.
References and Resources
Unix Network Programming by Stevens is the reference of choice for
programming the Unix sockets API. There will also be a review session before
the first assignment is due which will provide an introduction to socket
programming.

TCP/IP Volume 1: The Protocols, also by Stevens, is an excellent 
reference to the specification and common implementations of TCP/IP and some
of the related protocols. Although this book is not a required course text,
it is an excellent reference. Some of the assignments refer to chapters
in this book for additional reading.

The RFC's (Request for Comments) are a set of documents which are the 
absolute reference for Internet standards. The RFC's are numbered sequentially.
There is an RFC web page; you can
also get the RFC's via anonymous FTP.
Look at INDEX.rfc for
a list of RFC titles.

Each student will be assigned a TA after signing up through the class web 
page. If you have a question that cannot be answered by any of the class
materials or the above references, you should contact your TA. The TA's will
hold office hours in the Sweet Hall; if you are having problems, you may
want to schedule one of your programming sessions during these hours.

Please e-mail questions to cs244a@leland


$Id: project_guidelines.html,v 1.2 1997/01/06 20:14:01 jimge Exp $


 