Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 22:09:19 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 17:21:26 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 12609

Area II.3. Adaptive Voice Mimic
Cluster II. Hypercomputing in Design Tasks Supported by Computational
Fluid Dynamics (CFD)
Area II.3 Design of 'voice mimic' speech generation systems

Area Coordinator:

James Flanagan (Rutgers)





I.  Introduction
The research on the adaptive voice mimic aims to advance fundamental
understanding of human speech generation and coalesces the problems of
speech synthesis, speech recognition, and low bit-rate speech coding
into a compact parametric framework. At its core, the mimic system
utilizes optimization techniques and a computationally-intensive model
of speech generation to provide a high quality estimate, moment by
moment, of articulatory parameters from an acoustic speech signal.
The estimation of articulatory parameters is accomplished through a
two-step process: an open-loop (table look-up based) initial
estimation followed by a closed-loop optimization refinement.

II.  Articulatory Shape Estimation Starting from an acoustic
input, the open-loop (i.e., with no optimization) estimate of the
articulatory parameters is obtained via a table look-up of precomputed
synthetic speech representations.  Each element in the table is stored
with the articulatory parameters from which it was produced.  The
input speech is compared with the synthetic speech in the table via a
spectral representation, and the articulatory shape corresponding to
the "closest" synthetic speech is selected.  Once initial articulatory
estimates are found for a series of speech segments, a dynamic
programming module provides smooth articulatory trajectories by
imposing articulatory constraints.  This concludes the open-loop
process.

The open-loop estimates, initialize a closed-loop optimization by
suggesting a starting position which is likely in the vicinity of the
(global) optimal solution. Effective open-loop estimates reduce the
computation required by the computationally-costly optimization loop.
Within the closed-loop optimization, synthetic speech is generated
from a compact set of articulatory parameters and compared with the
input speech using a perceptually weighted distance metric. The
articulatory parameters are iteratively adjusted based on the result
of the comparison so that the weighted spectral distance between the
arbitrary speech input and the synthetic speech is driven to below a
preset threshold.

III.  Articulatory Speech Synthesis

As part of this research, two methods of high quality speech synthesis
from articulatory parameters are studied.  The first method is based
on linear acoustic theory/models of speech production, and the second
method is based on a fluid-dynamic formulation. The techniques for the
first method are relatively well established, but the method assumes
plane wave propagation inside the vocal tract and also neglects most
of the non-linear terms. On the other hand, the second, new method
attempts to capture more accurately the physics behind human speech
production.  This is done by formulating the speech production process
as a fluid-dynamic phenomenon.  The approach uses a form of the
Reynolds-Averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) equations describing fluid
motion to numerically solve for low Mach number, compressible flow in
vocal tract geometries.  Physical experiments, from which real flow
quantities are acquired, support the computational approach by
validating numerical results.



Both linear acoustic and fluid-dynamic synthesis use vocal tract
shapes defined by means of articulatory models.  Two models have been
used: Tracttalk (Lin, 1990) and the Flanagan-Ishizaka model
(Ishizaka, 1976).  Both models provide stylized vocal tract shapes
defined by a compact set of parameters.  These parameters quantify the
position and shape of articulators.  For example, the parameters
primarily used in this study specify the location and size of the main
constriction in the vocal tract, the mouth aperture, and the
cross-sectional area of the front cavity.  These parameters are shown
in the schematic below.


The Flanagan-Ishizaka Vocal Tract Model


IV.  Achievements
IV.1. Vowel Recognition

Using a spectral representation based on linear-predictive poles and
a reduced number of articulatory parameters, a vowel recognition system
based on an articulatory representation of speech signals has been
designed.  In contrast to the articulatory based approach, traditional
speech recognition systems have relied on spectral and/or cepstral
features.  Despite considerable efforts seeking more accurate,
compact, and reliable features for robust speech recognition, the
articulatory representation of speech has not been exploited due to
the difficulty and computational intensity involved in estimating
articulatory parameters from speech waveforms.  Adaptive voice mimic
with optimized open-loop steering and efficient closed-loop control
provides a promising solution to the challenge.

A nearly real-time laboratory prototype of the articulatory based
recognition system has been implemented and demonstrated.  The system
can recognize both isolated vowels and vowel strings.  A recognition
accuracy of more than 97% is obtained.  During the recognition
computation, dynamically changing sagittal profiles of the vocal tract
(corresponding to the input speech) are displayed.  The figure below
shows the main displays of the recognition prototype.


The Voice Mimic Articulatory Based Vowel Recognition System


IV.2. Speech Coding 

The articulatory representation is one of the most promising technique
for high quality very low bit-rate speech coding.  It is thought that
such a representation can produce speech coders below 1 kbits per
second.  Thus, the importance of acoustic to articulatory mapping
for the purpose of coding is apparent.

The adaptive voice mimic research has also produced a coding system
for vowels and fricative consonants (such as the /s/ in "sea" and /f/
in "fire").  It was found that spectral comparison based on the poles
of linear prediction, which works excellently for vowels, does not
work equally well for fricatives. The major reason being that for the
fricatives there are a number of bound pole/zero pairs. As a result,
linear prediction fails to provide accurate estimates of these
singularities. Therefore, other feature representations have been
explored. The cepstrum representation was chosen since it is
relatively compact and produces positive results.

In order to complete the extension of the voice mimic system to
fricative sounds, an improved initial estimation of source parameters
has been designed to include an efficient voiced/unvoiced decision.
Evident discrepancies exist in the frequency content between sounds
produced by a source at the glottis (vibration of vocal cords) and
sounds produced by a noise source at a constriction in the vocal tract
(as is the case for fricatives).  These discrepancies make necessary
the use of multiple codebooks.  The appropriate codebook is selected
based on the voiced-unvoiced decision. The estimation of articulatory
parameters is then completed by the open-loop steering followed by
closed-loop analysis.

This system has produced vowel/consonant/vowel utterances and short
sentences of very encouraging quality.  Below, are some coding
examples from the voice mimic where the articulatory parameters from
the input speech have been used to re-synthesize the speech.

Speech Coding Examples Using the Adaptive Voice Mimic
(Sun Audio, 32kHz, 16-bit, linear)


  Natural Input Speech  Voice Mimic
    /usu/
 /usu/
  /ushu/
 /ushu/
  /ufu/
 /ufu/
  she saw a fire
 she saw a fire


IV.3. Speaker Identification Physiological information about
a particular speaker's vocal tract is "hidden" in their speech signal.
Acoustic-to-articulatory mapping provides a means to extract
this information and use it to differentiate speakers.  In particular,
vocal tract parameters can be used to supplement traditional speaker
identification methods.  The advantage of vocal tract parameters is
that they are not affected by emotion or sickness, and they cannot be
easily altered for the purpose of impersonation.
 

Preliminary experiments have been done towards the estimation of the
vocal tract length from the acoustic signal. This is a critical
parameter for differentiating talkers in speaker identification or
verification tasks. The estimation is performed using the voice mimic
system and a two-step strategy.  First, the shape of the vocal tract
is determined using a codebook built on a fixed vocal tract length.
Then, the vocal tract length is estimated using a detailed codebook
comprising variations of the same shape with it's length stretched and
compressed.  Although such an approach requires advance knowledge of
which sound is produced, this problem will be overcome in the future
by replacing the second codebook by an optimization loop. Initial
results have been obtained using a database which associates X-ray
images of the vocal tract and the corresponding speech signal
produced. It is shown that the vocal tract length estimated by the
voice mimic system agrees well with the measured value.

V.  Publications

G. Richard, M. Goirand, D. Sinder, J. Flanagan, "Simulation and
Visualization of Articulatory Trajectories Estimated from Speech
Signals," Submitted for presentation at the International Symposium on
Simulation, Visualization and Auralization for Acoustic Research and
Education (ASVA97), April 1997, Tokyo, Japan.

G. Richard, Q. Lin, F. Zussa, D. Sinder, C. Che, and J. Flanagan,
``Vowel recognition using an articulatory representation,''
JASA, Vol. 98, No. 5, Pt. 2, November 1995, p. 2965.
 
F. Zussa, Q. Lin, G. Richard, D. Sinder, and J. Flanagan,
``Open-loop acoustic-to-articulatory mapping,'' JASA,Vol. 98,
No. 5, Pt. 2, November 1995, p. 2931.

Q. Lin, G. Richard, J. Zou, D. Sinder, J. Flanagan, ``Use of
TRACTTALK for adaptive voice mimic,'',JASA, Vol. 97, No 5, Pt
2, May 1995, p. 3247.  
Related Publications

D. Sinder, G. Richard, H. Duncan, J. Flanagan, S. Slimon,
D. Davis, M. Krane, S. Levinson, "Flow Visualization in Stylized Vocal
Tracts," Submitted for presentation at the International Symposium
on Simulation, Visualization and Auralization for Acoustic Research
and Education (ASVA97), April 1997, Tokyo, Japan.

S. Slimon, D. Davis, S. Levinson, M. Krane, G. Richard, D. Sinder,
H. Duncan, Q. Lin, J. Flanagan, ``Low Mach number Flow Through A
Constricted, Stylized Vocal Tract'', American Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics Conference (AIAA96), Penn State Univ., PA., May 1996.  

D. Sinder, G. Richard, H. Duncan, Q. Lin, J. Flanagan, S.
Levinson, D. Davis, and S. Slimon, ``A fluid flow approach to speech
generation'', First ESCA Tutorial and Research Workshop on Speech
Production Modeling: From control strategies to Acoustic, Autrans,
France, May 21-24, 1996.

G. Richard, M. Liu, D. Sinder, H. Duncan, Q. Lin, J. Flanagan, S.
Levinson, D. Davis, and S. Slimon, ``Numerical simulations of fluid
flow in the vocal tract,'' Proc. of 1995 Eurospeech, pp. 1297-1300.
Madrid, Spain, September 18-21, 1995.

G. Richard, M. Liu, D. Sinder, H. Duncan, Q. Lin,
J. Flanagan, S.  Levinson, D. Davis, S. Slimon, ``Vocal tract
simulations based on fluid dynamic analysis,'', JASA, Vol. 97, No 5,
Pt 2, May 1995, pp3245.



Visit
CAIP's Multimedia Lab

Return to HPCD Home Page
