Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 22:51:51 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.1
Last-modified: Wed, 19 Oct 1994 21:12:47 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 2492


CS 152 - How to Print

<!-- describe the document, avoid context sensative descriptions >


<!-- keywords for the document >


<!-- should be "document" unless providing a search, then "service" >


<!-- use "global" for documents to be indexed outside BYU, otherwise "local" >



CS 152 - Discrete Structures
How to Print Documents
George Rudolph (adapted from Phil Windley)


Printing is not necessary for the class.  However, you may wish to print
Lecture notes and other information found on the Web.

To get a printing account you must:

 Go to the Computer Science Department secretaries and get a Cashier's Card.  Each card is for $10.00 of printing at $.05 per page.
 Take the card to the ASB Cashier's Office and pay the $10.00 fee.
 Go to Jim Logan and get an account on BERT (the department's general purpose UNIX machine) if you do not already have one.
 Write your account name on the card and take to the department secretaries.  They will set up your printing account.


To print a document from Mosaic:

 Select Print from the File menu.
 Retrieve the printed material from the printer in Room 2221.



Some tips on printing from Mosaic:

 Set the width of your Mosaic window to 800.  This is done by pointing the mouse to the upper right hand corner of the Mosaic window.  This is the resize box.  Hold down the left mouse button the resize box to shrink/expand the window as necessary.  As you do this, the Mosaic window's dimensions (width x height) will appear in the upper left hand cornier of the screen.  Set the width to 800.
 Reduce the font size in Mosaic.  This is done by selecting Fonts from the Options menu.  Set the font to Times Small.



 1994, Phillip
J. Windley.  All rights reserved.  Reproduction of all or part of this work
is permitted for educational or research use provided that this copyright
notice is included in any copy. 


