Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 19:01:27 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Fri, 17 May 1996 01:35:39 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3012


Concert Software Release


Concert Software Release


The Concert System is available on a variety of  parallel platforms.  Compiler runs on
recent Sparc machines, and the compiler requires at least 32MB of RAM
to run the compiler comfortably; more memory will help
performance when compiling large programs.  We are currently
supporting only a single configuration of the Concert system.  In
order to make Concert work on your system, you must have the
following:


 Sparcstation 4,5,10, or 20 with 32+ MB of memory
 GNU's g++ compiler version 2.7.2
 GNU's gmake, a make program is used to build Concert
executables, so you cannot compile programs without it.  Any version of
gmake should work fine.
 GNU Emacs version 18 or 19.  Emacs is required to run the Concert 
Debugger and the Emacs interface to the Concert Compiler and Emulator.


See the Concert System release
notice for more information.  All of these programs are freely
available from numerous anonymous FTP sites; if you do not have one or
more of them, use archie to find the FTP site nearest you.  If you
don't know how to use archie, clicking here will connect you to the
main GNU software server, prep.ai.mit.edu.
  


The Concert System is publicly available from the Concurrent System
Architecture Group at the University of Illinois.  It will come as a tar file,
and can be installed simply by untarring it.  The software is not in
the public domain; it is offered freely for use in education and research.
  


To obtain the current release of Concert Software, click on the button
below.  The release is over 19MB, even in compressed form, so it may
take a while to download. 4.0 is the newest version of Concert, supporting
our new langauge ICC++. The compiler in Concert 4.0 has been tuned for
ICC++, and so the 3.0 compiler is more robust for Concurrent Aggregates. 
  


Concert 4.0 software distribution



Concert 3.0 software distribution


To comply with the GNU's copyleft on the gdb software, the 
source to our modifications of gdb is available.


Back to CSAG home page
Last updated 3 November 1995

webmaster


