Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 18:50:47 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Fri, 02 Aug 1996 15:26:58 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 2524




DATAMAN Lab Configuration



  DATAMAN Lab Configuration  



The DATAMAN lab is a part of Department of Computer Science, 
Rutgers University. The description of hardware equipment and 
the software being used for research in Mobile Computing is 
given below: 
 Hardware 

We use 386/486 PC-ATs running at 33 MHz for wireless base stations.
These machines are connected to the Rutgers LCSR network via
Ethernet. These machines are also equipped with 2 Mbps NCR Wavelan-AT
cards for wireless communication. Wavelan is an indoor wireless LAN
which uses spread spectrum technology in the 900MHz ISM band. CSMA/CA 
is used for the Media Access protocol which provides Ethernet like 
interface to the higher layers. The range for Wavelan radio 
transmission is between 100-800 ft depending upon the office environment. 
We currently have three base stations with overlapping reception areas
although non-overlapped cells can be simulated by configuring each base
station to use different MAC layer network ID for radio transmission. 

The mobile hosts currently have two different configurations. One
type is HP Vectra 486 PC-ATs running at 66 MHz which do not have any
Ethernet (wired network) connection. These use Wavelan-AT cards to 
communicate with other mobile hosts and base station that are within
the hearing distance. The other type is Toshiba T1950 series 486 
laptops running at 40 Mhz. These use PCMCIA Wavelan cards for wireless
communication which are similar in operation to the Wavelan-AT cards.
The laptops do not have any Ethernet connection either. 
 Operating System 

All the mobile hosts (MHs) and the base stations or the Mobile Support
Routers (MSRs) run Mach 3.0 micro kernel (MK84) and UX server (UX40)
which is similar to 4.3 BSD Tahoe release. The MSRs use Mobile IP
protocol from Columbia University to provide a virtual mobile subnet
consisting of multiple cells so that the MHs can move across these
wireless cells without having to change their IP address. The MSRs
and the MHs also run the msrmicp and mhmicp programs respectively
which take care of beaconing and registration (Mobile Internetworking
Control Protocol) for Mobile IP. 

Last modified: August 1, 1996 
Julio Cesar Navas 
(navas@cs.rutgers.edu)



