Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 22:57:15 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.5
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3985
Last-modified: Sun, 13 Oct 1996 18:49:36 GMT

PCD Seminar 11/15/96 Goldberg

People, Computers, and Design
Seminar


The Design of LearningWorks

Adele Goldberg, Neometron
adele@neometron.com
Stanford University November 15, 1996
12:30-@2:00 pm, Gates Hall B01 (HP Classroom)
 (SITN Channel E4)


Jobs in commercial software development are team jobs. The teams build
systems that bring value to their customers. New hires, whether fresh out of
school or transferring from other commercial projects, are successful only
if they can contribute to the team's goals. Yet the formal education of
these new
hires emphasized programming, not system building, and rarely offered team
experience in creating and maintaining large systems. What might a
curriculum focused on teaching system building contain? 


Faced with that question, I set out to design a new system that would
support authoring and delivering such a curriculum. The result is
LearningWorks , available for free on the Internet. The purpose of this talk is to
discuss the user interface design for LearningWorks, specifically how the
simple metaphor of learning books can be used both to teach software system
building concepts and to support teams in building systems.





Dr. Adele Goldberg is currently a founder of Neometron, Inc., a Texas-based
company working towards Intranet support for self-managed teams. Previously,
she served as Chairman of the Board and a founder of ParcPlace-Digitalk,
Inc. until April, 1996. Prior to the creation of ParcPlace, Adele received a
Ph.D. in Information Science from the University of Chicago and spent 14
years as researcher and laboratory manager of Xerox Palo Alto Research
Center.  From 1984-1986, Adele served as president of the ACM.  Solely and
with others, Adele wrote the definitive books on the Smalltalk-80 system and
has authored numerous papers on project management and analysis methodology
using object-oriented technology.  Dr. Goldberg edited "The History of
Personal Workstations," published jointly by the ACM and Addison-Wesley in
1988 as part of the ACM Press Book Series of the History of Computing which
she organized, and co-edited "Visual Object-Oriented Programming" with
Margaret Burnett and Ted Lewis.  In 1995, a new book on software engineering
appeared entitled "Succeeding With Objects: Decision Frameworks for Project
Management" with Kenneth S. Rubin.  


She was recipient of the ACM Systems Software Award in 1987 along with Dan
Ignalls and Alan Kay, PC Magazine's 1990 Lifetime Achievement Award for her
significant contributions to the personal computer industry, is a Fellow of
the ACM, and was honored in 1995 with the Reed College Howard Vollum Award
for contributions to science and technology.  She is currently a member of
the scientific advisory board of the German National Research Centers (GMD),
the governing board of the San Francisco Exploratorium, and is a director of
Cogito Learning Media, a private company developing supplemental materials
for college-level science and business courses.




Click here for the description of
the seminar.


Information provided for the Stanford
Computer Science Department by the HCI Course
Coordinator as part of the description ofHCI at Stanford. Last updated October 13, 1996.

