Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 22:32:06 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.1
Last-modified: Thu, 17 Oct 1996 18:31:26 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 2998


Department Chair Announcment




 Department Chair Announcement




Michigan Technological University

Department Chair

Department of Computer Science



Applications and nominations are invited for the position of Chair of
the Department of Computer Science. The successful candidate will 
provide leadership for the interdisciplinary Computational Science 
and Engineering (CS&E) doctoral program and should have a long term
commitment to furthering the overall development of the Department. 
The candidate is also expected to represent the Department in 
interdisciplinary computational activities throughout Michigan Tech.

The Department of Computer Science currently has ten faculty positions.
Faculty conduct research in artificial intelligence, communication 
algorithms, compiler optimization, computational biology,  computational 
geometry, computer graphics, geometric/solid modeling, interconnection 
networks, parallel architectures, parallel processing, performance 
evaluation, sequence comparison algorithms, software development 
environments, and software measurement. 

The Department has an active undergraduate program with 280 majors, an
M.S. program with 30 students, and a newly established CS&E Ph.D. program.
Departmental computing facilities consist of networks of Sun workstations,
Dec Alpha's, SGI's, and X-terminals.  Computer Science operates three 
instructional Sun workstation labs.

Michigan Tech, designated as one of four Michigan research universities,
has 6,200 students and 400 faculty.  The University is located in the 
scenic Keweenaw Peninsula of Michigan's Upper Peninsula.  Surrounded by 
the clean water of Lake Superior and nearby forests, the community 
offers year-round recreational and cultural enrichment opportunities.

Applications, nominations, and inquiries should be sent to:


               Dr. John Lowther
               Search Committee Chair
               Department of Computer Science
               Michigan Technological University
               1400 Townsend Drive
               Houghton, MI  49931-1295

               Phone: (906) 487-2209 
               Email: john@mtu.edu
               Fax: (906) 487-2283


Information about the Department is available at 
 http://www.cs.mtu.edu/. 

Applications should include a detailed resume and the names and addresses 
of at least four references.  The search committee will review applications 
on a continuing basis and will accept applications until the position 
is filled.  Applications from minority and women candidates are strongly 
encouraged. 
Michigan Technological University is an Equal Opportunity 
Educational Institution/Equal Opportunity Employer.


