Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 22:39:27 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.1
Last-modified: Tue, 24 Sep 1996 19:19:13 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 2258



373 F 96 Lab Report Format




ABOUT EECS 373 LAB REPORTS


Lab reports are due 1 week after your section completes the lab,

(i.e., at your next lab session.) at the beginning of the lab.

You need to demonstrate your working program to a TA before the

beginning of your next lab section. 



Here is what we expect to see on your reports.



1. Purpose/Procedure: A brief description of the purpose

of the lab and a summary of steps followed.



2. Hardware: For each new components, such as new chip

or a new part of the 80186 (such as timer, interrupt controller

or chip select unit).


What does the component do? Why do you use it?

How is the chip connected to the microprocessor?

How do you write to or read from the component? If the component

has internal registers, how do you access them?

How do you generate (a) chip select(s) for the chip? 




3. Software: Through description of the software, including:


A complete explanation of the new parts of your software.

which should be documented with either a flowchart or a high-level

programming language.

If you write anything to the peripheral chips, an explanation

of where (which address) and why you wrote it. 

If you use any specific numbers, (e.g., address of the register

in a chip,the numbers you used for the clock generators in Lab

3, etc.) show a derivation of how you find them. (Please do not

use such numbers in your code segment; equate the to variables

at the beginning of the program and use variable names in the

code segment.) 




4. Memory and I/O map: Draw both memory and I/O space.


Show locations of all code and data segments.

Show all peripheral registers.

Show all the components that you use. 

Any other addresses that seem significant. 




5. Answer to questions in the lab manual.



6. A signed copy of your working program: A TA will sign it when

you demonstrate your working program to him or her. 



