Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 19:31:23 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5565
Last-modified: Thu, 10 Oct 1996 18:19:16 GMT




Applications





 



Computational Chemistry

Computational
Chemistry Publications


Direct
Simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) Methods 
Direct Simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) 
Publications 
In highly adaptive irregular problems such as many Particle-In-Cell
(PIC) codes and Direct Simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) codes, data access
patterns may vary from time step to time step. 
To efficiently parallelize such adaptive irregular problems on distributed
memory parallel computers, effective methods for domain partitioning
must be addressed. 
A simple one-dimensional domain partitioning method is implemented and
compared with unstructured mesh partitioners such as recursive coordinate
bisection and recursive inertial bisection.

DSMC
Simulations 



Sparse Matrix Applications 

Sparse
Matrix Application Publications




Computational Combustion

Computational
Combustion Publications


Detailed multi-dimensional numerical simulations provide an ideal vehicle
to study fundamental properties of hydrocarbon flames. The physical processes
in hydrocarbon flames are highly complex and interact in a strongly non-linear
fashion. Numerical experimentation is an excellent way to isolate physical
processes, study their interactions, or predict important properties such
as flammability limits. The study of flammability limits is of great practical
importance to fire safety. Near the flammability limit, several physical
processes, especially chemistry, become very important and the interaction
among them becomes crucial in determining the flammability limit. Only
highly detailed models which include detailed chemistry and diffusive processes
can obtain the correct flammability limits. 
The extinction of hydrocarbon flames is a multidimensional, transient
process. To date, sufficiently detailed calculations for hydrocarbon flames
has only been carried out for steady-state flames. Some preliminary calculations
of transient methane flames with moderately detailed flames have been carried
out at the Naval Research Laboratory. These calculations clearly show the
need for including detailed chemistry in hydrocarbon flame modeling. The
reaction scheme used in these calculations used 15 species and 35 reactions.
A complete reaction mechanism for methane would involve 50 species and
200 reactions. For higher hydrocarbons, which are of more interest to the
Navy, the number of species and reactions is far greater. These calculations
are currently beyond the capabilities of current supercomputers. 
Parallel computers are only means currently available to perform these
calculations. Thus it is imperative that the current detailed flame code
be ported to a parallel machine. The existing sequential code has been
extensively tested and verified, so to ensure reliability, the code should
be ported with only minimum modification. The PARTI software will enable
us to port the code to a wide variety of parallel computes with limited
disruption to the existing sequential code. 
The flame code is not restricted to hydrocarbon fuels and can be generalized
to other energetic fuels. A parallel reactive flow code will provide the
Navy with a very powerful tool to study these fuels. 





[Applications
| High
Performance I/O | Compilers
| Tools]

Questions about the system or webserver: webmaster@cs.umd.edu
Problems with publications homepage: wes@cs.umd.edu




