Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 20:39:42 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Wed, 25 Sep 1996 01:59:43 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 11426



CPS 100E, Fall 1996, Second Assignment


Programming Assignment #1, CPS 100E, Fall 1996: 
Searching Kwicly (24 points)

(This problem appeared in a slighly different format in the Internet
Programming Contest.)




Due Date: Early bonus: Wednesday, October 2, midnight
Final Due Date: Monday, October 7, midnight


This assignment will provide practice with structs, vectors, sorting, reading
from files using getline, streams, writing classes, and iterative
enhancement. 


Table of Contents



[
Introduction |
Input/Output |
Coding |
Grading |
Submitting |
Extra Credit
]



(A Makefile and sample input files are accessible in
~ola/cps100e/kwic on the acpub system.  Be sure to
create a subdirectory kwic for this problem and to
set the permissions for access by prof/uta/ta by typing
fs setacl kwic ola:cps100e read.)
 

 Introduction


Searching and sorting are prototypical computer applications.  For this
assignment you'll write a program that organizes titles (or sentences)
for efficient "human search" based on different key words.
Given a list of titles and a list of words to ignore, you are to
write a program that generates a KWIC (Key Word In Context) index of the
titles.  In a KWIC-index, a title is listed once for each keyword that
occurs in the title.  The KWIC-index is alphabetized by keyword.
Keywords are any words that are not listed in the list of words to ignore.


For example, if words to ignore are
 the, of, and, as, a  and the list
of titles is:

Descent of Man
The Ascent of Man
The Old Man and The Sea
A Portrait of The Artist As a Young Man


A KWIC-index of these titles is given by:



                  a portrait of the ARTIST as a young man 
                                the ASCENT of man 
                                    DESCENT of man 
                         descent of MAN 
                      the ascent of MAN 
                            the old MAN and the sea 
a portrait of the artist as a young MAN 
                                the OLD man and the sea 
                                  a PORTRAIT of the artist as a young man 
                the old man and the SEA 
      a portrait of the artist as a YOUNG man 



Each title is listed as many times as there are key words in the title.
For example, "A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man" is listed four
times, once each for "portrait", "artist", "young", and "man".

 Input/Output

Your program should read from a file whose name
you enter when you run the program.
Legal input files contain a list of words to ignore (one per line)
followed by a list of titles (one per line)
The string :: on a line by itself is used to
separate the list of words to ignore from the list of titles.  Each of
the words to ignore appears in lower-case letters on a line by itself
and is no more than 10 characters in length.  Each title appears on a
line by itself and may consist of mixed-case (upper and lower) letters.
Words in a title are separated by whitespace.  No title contains more
than 25 words.


There will be no more than 100 words to ignore, no more than than 500
titles, and no more than 50,000 characters in the titles and words to
ignore combined.  No characters other than 'a'--'z', 'A'--'Z', and white
space will appear in the input.

 The Output 

The output should be a KWIC-index of the titles, with each title
appearing once for each keyword in the title, and with the KWIC-index
alphabetized by keyword.  If a word appears more than once in a title,
each instance is a potential keyword.  In other words the title
A Rose is a Rose is an Aphorism would appear three times (once
for each occurrence of Rose and once for Aphorism.)


The keyword should appear in all upper-case
letters. All other words in a title should be in lower-case letters.
Case (upper or lower) is irrelevant when determining if a word is to be
ignored.  Titles should be roughly centered as shown above with all key
words capitalized and justified somewhere near the middle of an 80
column screen (don't worry about this part at first).  Assume titles
will fit on a line, don't worry about handling weird cases, just handle
cases assuming that the longest title will fit properly.


Titles in the KWIC-index with the same keyword should appear in the same
order as they appeared in the input file.
In the case where multiple
instances of a word are keywords in the same title, the keywords should
be capitalized in left-to-right order.
  A sort that maintains the original order of elements with
equal keys is called a stable sort.  Insertion sort is stable.
The code for insertion sort can be found in the Tapestry text,
it is reproduced below for a vector of ints.







void InsertSort(Vector & a, int numElts)
// precondition: a contains numElts ints
// postcondition: elements of a are sorted in non-decreasing order
{
    int k,loc;
    int hold;
    
    for(k=1; k < numElts; k++) 
    {
        hold = a[k];                   // "keep" the k-th element
        loc = k;                       // shift other elements right
        while (0 < loc && hold < a[loc-1])
        {
            a[loc] = a[loc-1];
            loc--;
        }
        a[loc] = hold;                 // store kept element in hole created
    }
}


Sample Input

is
the
of
and
as
a
but
::
Descent of Man
The Ascent of Man
The Old Man and The Sea
A Portrait of The Artist As a Young Man
A Man is a Man but Bubblesort IS A DOG


Corresponding Output


                  a portrait of the ARTIST as a young man 
                                the ASCENT of man 
                 a man is a man but BUBBLESORT is a dog 
                                    DESCENT of man 
 a man is a man but bubblesort is a DOG 
                         descent of MAN 
                      the ascent of MAN 
                            the old MAN and the sea 
a portrait of the artist as a young MAN 
                                  a MAN is a man but bubblesort is a dog 
                         a man is a MAN but bubblesort is a dog 
                                the OLD man and the sea 
                                  a PORTRAIT of the artist as a young man 
                the old man and the SEA 
      a portrait of the artist as a YOUNG man 



Coding Requirements and Help

Ideally you will maintain only one copy of each title, you will not
store a title once for each keyword although you will print a title
once for each keyword.  You may choose not to worry about this.  This
assignment is worth 24 points and 4 of the points are for minimizing
storage by storing titles only once.  
As a first pass, you may decide to store each
title once for each occurrence of a keyword.  That might lead to the
following declarations.  A diagram below 
shows how the struct KwicTitle is used
to store the title The Old Man and the Sea.
 


   struct KwicTitle
   {
       Vector myTitle;
       int            myKeyIndex;
   };

   bool operator < (const KwicTitle & lhs, const KwicTitle & rhs)
   {
	return lhs.myTitle[lhs.myKeyIndex] < rhs.myTitle[rhs.myKeyIndex];
   }




In the diagram below the title is stored as 4 KwicTitle objects, 
once for each keyword. Note that when two two KwicTitles are compared
(using less than: operator <) 
the index of the
keyword determines which string in the KwicTitles are compared (you may
need to think about this).
 



Minimizing Storage

One option for storing titles once is to use a vector of titles, storing
each title once in the vector (of course the titles may be vectors
of strings, but this isn't a problem --- you can also make the titles
structs that contain a vector of strings).  
Then you can replace myTitle in
the declaration of KwicTitle with an index into the vector of
titles.  With this solution there will still be four KwicTitle
objects for The Sun Also Rises but myTitle is now an
index to a title rather than a title (again, think about this carefully
and ask questions.)

 Developing a Class 

You'll probably find it useful to develop a class to solve this problem.
For example, public member functions could include Read and
PrintIndex.  There will probably be several private member
functions that will be called from PrintIndex and that will
call each other.  For example, you might store the words to ignore in a 
Vector<string> myIgnore and then write a function as
shown below to search this vector.

    bool Kwic::IsIgnore(const string & s)
    {
        int k;
        for(k=0; k < myIgnoreCount; k++)
        {
            if (myIgnore[k] == s) return true;
        }
        return false;
    }

Of course you don't need to do this, it's just an example of a private
member function (Kwic::IsIgnore) that could be useful.


Grading Standards

This assignment is worth 24 points.  Points will be awarded as follows:



 Behavior
 Points

Generates KWIC-index
6

Sorted Properly
2

Handles duplicate key words in title
2

Nice output (centered)
2

Memory Efficient
4

Coding Style (uses classes, comments)
6

README
2



Submission

You should create a README file for this and all assignments.
All README files should include your name as well as the name(s)
of anyone with whom you collaborated on the assignment and the amount of
time you spent.


To submit your assignment, type:

   submit100e kwic README kwic.cc Makefile ...


Be sure to submit all source files (e.g., you may decide to write a
seperate header file although this is NOT required.)


Extra Credit

For extra credit you should not use a vector to store the words in a
title, you should use a List (see chapter 6 of Tapestry).  
You can still use an index for each keyword, but you'll need to count
words rather than index directly to the keyword because the list class
doesn't support random access.  You are free to change
KwicTitle completely, but you must minimize storage and you
must use Lists to store any titles.

To submit the extra credit assignment, type:

   submit100 kwic.xtra README ..........

where you include all the files you use for this version of the kwic program.





