Date: Wed, 15 Jan 1997 01:31:37 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 04:47:30 GMT
Content-length: 8553



Hierarchical JPEG

Hierarchical Coding 

To investigate the effectiveness of
hierarchical coding (or layered coding) for congestion control
in ATM Networks, I have implemented the sequential DCT-based 
hierarchical mode of JPEG using the existing baseline JPEG code from the Independent
JPEG group.  Below is a short tutorial on the hierarchical mode of JPEG.



The JPEG Still Image Compression Standard Overview
The Hierarchical Mode of the JPEG Standard
Difference between Progressive Mode and Hierarchical Mode
References



The JPEG Still Image Compression Standard Overview

The JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) standard was developed under the auspices of
ISO (ISO 10918-1 JPEG Draft International Standard) and CCITT  (CCITT Recommendation 
T.81), and supports both lossy and lossless compression.  The lossy methods are based on the 
Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT). The standard specifies four modes of operation: sequential, 
lossless, progressive, and hierarchical encoding[1].
The progressive and hierarchical modes allow for decompression of a partially received signal.



Even though this standard was developed with still images in mind, it is also used for video 
transmission by providing intraframe compression only (often referred to as motion JPEG).  
Intraframe compression provides much lower compression ratios for video than combined intra and 
interframe compressio frames. 



Sequential encoding is probably the most common mode for most applications. 
It involves encoding each image component in a single left-to-right top-to-bottom scan. 
The most widely used mode of JPEG is the baseline mode which is a subset of the sequential encoding based 
on the Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT).  In the baseline encoding algorithm, each component of the 
source image is divided into 8x8 pixels of non-overlapping blocks.  The pixel values in each such 
block are first level-shifted from unsigned to signed integers and then input to the forward 
DCT.  The resulting 64 DCT coefficient values can be regarded as the relative amount of 2D 
spatial frequencies contained in the input image. The DC coefficient is a measure of the average 
value of the 64 image pixels.



The next step is to quantize the DCT coefficients. The purpose of this step is to achieve further 
compression by quantizing high-frequency components with a larger step size (i.e., more 
coarsely). This is because high spatial frequencies require less detailed coding. 
This step discards visually unimportant information and thus makes the approach "lossy." 
These quantized coefficients are then entropy encoded, with the DC coefficients being treated specially. 
Since the DC coefficients are a measure of the average value of the pixels in the block, they are 
expected to show less variation within the same component, and therefore, are differentially 
encoded.


The quantized AC coefficients are ordered in a zigzag sequence starting from the top-left corner 
and traversing the nearest cells first. This ordering puts the low-frequency coefficients before the 
high-frequency ones, and thus facilitates entropy coding. 
The coefficients are first run-length encoded and then coded using Huffman or arithmetic coding. 


The output from the entropy encoder is the output of the JPEG encoder. 
The JPEG decoder simply reverses this process, using an entropy decoder, dequantizer, and the 
inverse DCT to reconstruct the image.



The Hierarchical Mode of the JPEG Standard

The hierarchical encoding mode of JPEG (HJPEG) encodes an image at multiple resolutions,
each differing from its adjacent level by a factor of two in the horizontal or vertical directions, or 
both. The image is first bandsplit on the basis of spatial frequency and subsampled by the desired 
number of multiples of two in either or both dimensions. For sequential DCT-based HJPEG this new 
reduced size image (called a frame in JPEG terminology) is encoded using the sequential mode described 
previously. Then, the encoded reduced-size image is decoded, interpolated and upsampled by two
horizontally and/or vertically. This upsampled image is then used as a prediction of the original 
image at this resolution and the difference image is computed. 
The difference image (called a differential frame) is then encoded using the sequential mode. 
Finally, the last two steps are repeated until the original image at full resolution has been encoded.



Difference between Progressive Mode and Hierarchical Mode

In the progressive mode, the 8x8 DCT coefficients blocks are encoded in multiple scans.  Like 
the hierarchical mode, the progressive mode requires an image-sized buffer for storing the 
coefficients between quantizer and the entropy coder.  Two procedures,   spectral selection  
 and  successive approximation, are defined for encoding the quantized coefficients in the
buffer.  Spectral selection  encodes  a specified band of coefficients in each scan.    
 Successive approximation  encodes  the most significant bits in the first scan and 
then the less significant bits in each subsequent scan.



The hierarchical mode, as described previously[2], provides a progressive presentation with 
increasing spatial resolution between progressive stages.  The image quality at extremely low 
bit rates is reported to be superior to any other modes of JPEG including the progressive mode[3].



Both the progressive and the hierarchical mode allow the progression of image, from coarse to refined.  However, the 
multiple resolutions in the hierarchical mode provide an edge over the progressive mode in the following 
two cases.  



Heterogeneous end user devices:  When a user has a low resolution display device, 
a maximum resolution for that device is always possible without receiving 
unnecessary data for higher resolution if the hierarchical mode is used.  Both the 
required bandwidth and the transmission time are reduced for a lower resolution
display device.  In the case of the progressive mode, a user can still see the progression 
of an image, however, the total transmission time is fixed for the full-resolution.  
Therefore,  the progressive mode does not attend to various user devices efficiently.   
The extended use of network bandwidth (and transmission time if progressed to the 
full-resolution completely) incurs an unnecessary cost if the devices have lower 
resolutions than the coded image.



Multimedia data storage:  Thumbnail images are feasible in the hierarchical mode.  
However, the separation of an image by layer for storing in a different storage 
device is not justified in the progressive mode, since a progression up to full-resolution
may be necessary regardless of image sizes.


Note also that the hierarchical mode can use other modes of JPEG for the progression.  Thus, even a finer granularity of the progression is possible if the 
progressive mode is used  instead of sequential mode.  On the other hand, the progressive mode of JPEG does not have any overhead in bit rate over the sequential
mode of JPEG, whereas the hierarchical mode does.




References
[1] G.K. Wallace. "The JPEG Still Picture Compression Standard,"
 Communications of the ACM, 34(4):30--44, July 1991.


[2] 
J. K. Han and G. C. Polyzos, "Networking Applications of Hierarchical
JPEG,"   1996 IEEE International Phoenix Conference on Computers and
Communications , IPCCC'96, Phoenix, AZ, March 1996.
Plaintext Abstract,
PostScript (7 pages, 1.6M)

(also Technical Report CS95-425, Dept. of Computer Science and
Engineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, May 1995)

[3] W.B. Pennebaker and J.L. Mitchell.
"JPEG Still Image Data Compression Standard," Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1993.



Last updated: December 12, 1995

[Top]
[Back to Home Page]



