Date: Tuesday, 14-Jan-97 23:40:07 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.1
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thursday, 02-Jan-97 20:14:31 GMT
Content-length: 3777




RuCCS Colloquium Series: Human & Computer Vision Series



The Rutgers Series on Human & Computer Vision


The
series on Human and Computer Vision features weekly talks by researchers
spanning both human and computer vision. The majority of the speakers are
from universities and research institutions from New York to Philadelphia,
with additional special guests from the US and abroad. This series attempts
to bring together in one forum vision researchers studying psychophysics,
cognition, computer vision, and machine vision.
 

The Rutgers Series on Human and Computer Vision is sponsored by: 
Center for Cognitive Science
Laboratory of Vision Research
Department of Psychology
Department of Biomedical Engineering
Department of Computer Science
 

Talks are Mondays at 2:30 in the Psychology Building, Room
101 on Busch Campus.
 A brief reception will be held after the talk in Room "A"139,
Rutgers Center for Cognitive Science, Psychology Building Addition, Busch
Campus. Note: Talks are also announced by email (with reminders
sent the day of the talk) to people who have requested to be placed on
our annouce list. If you would like to be added to our announce list or
would like additional information regarding this talk series, please contact
Sven Dickinson at sven@ruccs.rutgers.edu
or (908)445-6154 or (908)445-0021. 



Sep. 30 Shan Yu (INRIA Sophia-Antipolis,
France)
Oct. 7 David Jacobs (NEC Research
Institute) 
Oct. 14 Gerald Westheimer (Division
of Neurobiology, Univ. of California, Berkeley) 
Oct. 21 Rakesh (Teddy) Kumar (David
Sarnoff Research Center) 
Oct. 28 Gregory D. Hager (Yale
University) 
Nov. 4 Martin Gizzi (Seton
Hall University School of Graduate Medical Education) 
Nov. 11 Visvanathan Ramesh (Imaging
& Visualization Department, Siemens Corporate Research) 
Nov. 18 Rob de Ruyter van Steveninck
(NEC Research Institute) 
Dec. 9 Robert M. McPeek (Harvard
University) 
Dec. 16 W. James MacLean (University
of Toronto) 




 
RuCCS Colloquia
 
"What is Cognitive Science?" 

Mail comments about this site to admin@ruccs.rutgers.edu


