Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 21:39:55 GMT
Server: Apache/0.8.11
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3344
Last-modified: Fri, 17 May 1996 19:18:45 GMT



BioSCAN Online!


 BioSCAN Online!

Submit Queries to the BioSCAN Server Interactively

The entries on this page will allow you to try out the BioSCAN server
interactivly. Clicking on the highlighted text will take you to a request
form. Fill out the form and click on Submit Request to submit your
query to the BioSCAN server node at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.



Search for a Sequence. Search the 
server's online database for a biosequence using a descriptive text
string. A list of matching entries is returned.


Retrieve a Sequence. Retrieve a
biosequence from the server's online database. This database includes GDB
and SWISS PROTEIN.

Match a Named Nucleic Acid Sequence.
Compare a named nucleic acid sequence with the server's online database(s)
and report similarities.

Match a Nucleic Acid Sequence. Compare a
user entered nucleic acid  sequence with the server's online database(s)
and report similarities.

Match a Named Protein Sequence. Compare a
named protein sequence with the server's online database(s) and report
similarities.

Match a Protein Sequence. Compare a
user entered protein sequence with the server's online database(s) and report
similarities.

Search for a PDB entry. Search the 
BNL Protein Data Bank in various ways. A list of matching entries is returned.




Report any problems encountered using the BioSCAN Online! web pages
to the BioSCAN administrator by sending an electronic mail message to
bioscan-info@cs.unc.edu.
If you have submitted a query that returned a blank document or a "timed out"
message we are very interested in hearing from you as we are still trying
to adjust our web server's parameters.


  Warning! This
area is under construction. New features and functions are being added so
expect the BioSCAN Online! pages to change over time.



Click on the icon to return to the BioSCAN home page.


The BioSCAN Project is a collaboration between the Microelectronics Systems
Laboratory, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and  MCNC, Research Triangle Park, NC.


 Last Updated Friday, October 13, 1995

Doug L. Hoffman (hoffman@cs.unc.edu)


 
© Copyrighted 1995 -- University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill




