Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 20:11:56 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.0
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5381
Last-modified: Mon, 26 Aug 1996 20:46:35 GMT




Connecting to MSUnet from Off-campus



 Connecting to MSUnet from Off-campus 

All of the computer labs and offices on campus here at MSU are connected
together through a metropolitan area computer network (MAN) called
MSUnet.  In turn, MSUnet is connected to the Internet.  Hence, from
almost any computer on campus, you can use the same applications that
access the Internet (i.e. Pilot e-mail, Netscape, Gopher, etc.)
regardless of where you are on campus.  However, when you leave campus
-- your apartment, your hometown, or even your dorm room -- you no
longer are have access to these applications because your personal
computer is not connected to MSUnet.  In order to connect to MSUnet, you
will need a modem and communication software that enables you to
connect.  



  If you live in Akers, Holmes, or
Shaw Halls and have your own computer, click here.  


 Connecting to the MSUnet with a Phone Modem 

You can connect to Pilot, Gopher, and other Internet services using a
personal computer, a modem, and communication software that emulates a
VT100 terminal..  Communication software for the Macintosh and IBM
PC-compatibles can be obtained free of charge from the  MSU Computer
Store .  Further, the store has detailed instructions on how to dial into
MSUnet and the Internet.  The Computer Store is located in 305 Computer
Center (Help Desk Number:  355-4500).  The communication software
package that the Computer Store offers includes free copies of 
 Netscape,
a Telnet program so you can check your email, a FTP program, and a news
reader so you can browse your favorite USENET newsgroups.


The communication software you need varies depending on the type of 
computer you own and the operating system you are running.  Click below
on the correct choice for you. 

 You have an IBM-compatible PC running                  
       
       Windows 95 
 You have an IBM-compatible PC running
       
       Windows 3.1 or Windows for Workgroups 3.11 
 You have an IBM-compatible PC running only
       
       MS-DOS 
 You have a 
       Macintosh 

If you are not sure what you need, go to the Computer Store, and they
will help you.  For more information about the MSU network and
connecting
a computer to the network, see  NETINFO


From the East Lansing area, you can connect to MSUnet for the charge of
a local phone call.  However, if you leave the East Lansing area and
dial into MSUnet using a long distance phone number, you will be charged
long distance rates for the duration of your connection.  Luckily, there
is a unique service called Michnet to take care of this problem.  It
allows you to connect to MSUnet with a local call from almost anywhere
in Michigan.  This way, when you go home for vacations, you can still
check your email and connect to the Internet through your MSU account.
For the Michnet local access number in your hometown, click 

here .  If
you do not live in Michigan, see the next section on on-line services.


 Connecting to the Internet through an On-Line Service 

On-line services present an alternative way to connect to the Internet.
If you have a personal computer and a modem, you can dial into an
on-line service, such as America OnLine, Compuserve, Prodigy, etc. These
services are commercially run.  Therefore, you are generally charged an
hourly rate while you are connected to their computers.  Most on-line
services provide e-mail, newsgroups, real-time chat rooms, freeware and
shareware software archives, and various commercial services such as
electronic mail-order shopping and airline reservation systems.  Many of
these on-line services also provide access to the Internet.  This allows
you to use Internet email, Gopher, FTP, and other Internet services via
their system.  If you leave MSU and do not live in Michigan, you may
wish to subscribe to one of these services so you can continue to use
Internet email to correspond to your friends at MSU and around the
world.

For more information on on-line services, click  here .


 Additional Information on connecting from Off-campus 

  MSU's NETINFO homepage 
  
       MSU's Connecting from Off-campus homepage 
  
       Modem settings for dial-up connections 
 
       Michnet and MSUnet dial-in phone numbers 



