Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 21:41:39 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html

		

BU CAS CS 680: Graduate Introduction to Computer Graphics---Home Page
		



BU
CAS
		
CS 680

Graduate Introduction to Computer Graphics 
(Section meets with CS 591: Topics in Graphics)
Spring 1996
		

HOME PAGE
		
 Participants e-mail comments on readings: 
 Virtual Reality I (3/13),  
 Virtual Reality II (3/20), 
 Fractals and Trees (3/27), 
 Natural Phenomena (4/3),
Texture (4/24)
 Participants' proposed term projects  







Class Meetings:

	Meets with CLA 
Stan Sclaroff 
Room MCS-279, phone 353-8928.
E-mail: sclaroff@cs
 Office hours:  Tue 5:30-7PM, Thu 3:30-5:00 or by appointment  

Course Description:

 
Graduate-level introduction to computer graphics algorithms,
programming methods, and applications. The primary focus is on the
fundamentals of two- and three-dimensional raster graphics:
scan-conversion, clipping, geometric transformations, and camera
modeling.  Basic concepts in computational geometry, computer-human
interfaces, animation, and visual realism are also introduced.
Graphics techniques are taught in a device independent manner.

Runs in parallel with the undergraduate introduction to graphics
class, CS480 lectures and doing the
programming projects, graduate students get together for one hour a
week to discuss recent journal/conference papers from the field. 
For a list of readings, see the CS680 syllabus.


Final Programming Project: 
  
Graduate students are not required to take the mid-term quiz or final
exam; instead, they will produce a final programming project.  By
mid-term, each CS680 student is expected to write a one page
description of their proposed final programming project.  Ideally, the
project will implement and analyze a research paper, or it can utilize
graphics to solve a specific problem relevant to the graduate
student's own research.  The projects will be evaluated based on both
a demo of a working system and a written report.


Syllabus


Course Policy, Grading,  etc.  

	OpenGL Documentation

 
OpenGL Documentation: Alphabetical Listing
 OpenGL Documentation: Listing by Topic
 OpenGL Specification
 OpenGL WWW Center


	Some Computer Graphics Links

Computer Graphics Home Page
RayShade Home Page
Toy Story Home Page
Computer Graphics Companies (Yahoo)
	Computer Animation (Yahoo)
	Computer Generated Art (Yahoo)
	

Page Created: Nov 9, 1995      
Last Modified: Jan 11, 1996
Maintained by: Stan Sclaroff


