Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 22:28:46 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.3
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 38204
Last-modified: Wed, 29 Mar 1995 06:29:08 GMT



C690: Managing and Visualizing Multimedia Data



C690: Managing and Visualizing Multimedia Data

This seminar introduces user interface and database issues arising in
multimedia systems.  Specifically, we will look at data
modeling, data querying and data visualization
issues relating to audio and video data.  The lectures will cover the
basic concepts and individual/team projects will explore the practical
issues.

Table of Contents (TOC)

  What's new
  General information
  Course description
 Lectures

  Lecture schedule (overview)
  Lecture schedule (details)

 Projects

  Project schedule (overview)
  Project home pages
  Project deliverables
  Development tools

 References

  References (core lectures)
  References (student lectures)



Please email, if you have any
comments or suggestions. 



What's new
(TOC)



 March 27
 Added a calendar to the 
 Lecture schedule (details)
section to ease navigation.  
You need to use "netscape11b" to take advantage of this feature.

 February 27
 Split the references into 
 References (core lectures) 
and
 References (student lectures) sections.
The former section retains the original references. Added 
(TOC)
links to ease navigation back to the table of contents.

 February 20
 Added more details to the detailed calendar which is now
accessible using the 
 Lecture schedule (details) 
heading.  Indexed the 
 References
section using a more conventional citation scheme. Created 

A Guide to Authoring HTML Documents.

 February 9
 Removed the Project Description section. The projects are now
described by the  Project Home Pages.

 February 4
 Refined the Project deliverables and 
the Project schedule sections.

 February 2
 Added slide notes for  Object-oriented data
management -- began reorganization of project specific material
into  Project Home Pages -- added a  What's new and a 
Project deliverables section.


General Information
(TOC)



 Instructors
 
	Ed Robertson 

 Office Hours: MR 10:00-11:00pm
	 Email: edrbtsn@cs.indiana.edu
	

	Dirk Van Gucht 

 Office Hours: M 11:15-12:15, W 11:30-12:30
	 Email: vgucht@cs.indiana.edu
	

	Munish Gandhi 

 Office Hours: TR 3:00-4:00pm
	 Email: gandhim@indiana.edu
	
 Lecture
 Section 2044, MW 4:00-5:15, WH006
 Newsgroup
 ac.c.690.mmdb


Course description
(TOC)



This seminar will explore the user interface/database boundary,
especially in the context of multimedia systems.  The goal is an
architecture where these separate components share more by way 
of common concepts and structures and less through procedural interfaces.


The intention here is to conceptualize and implement multimedia
objects having semantically relevant structure amenable to querying
and manipulation, in contrast to current multimedia systems which lack
the database perspective of data independence and associated query
capabilities and to current databases which treat multimedia objects
as "blobs",  if at all.


The seminar will develop prototype implementations which present
diverse information -- such as movies, sound tracks, and even
traditional relational data -- within a unified conceptual framework
and presentation environment.  This implementation will be done by
teams who bring a variety of experiences to bear on the multifaceted
issues which will arise. 



Lecture schedule (overview)
(TOC)



 Weeks 1, 2, 3: Introduction and Data Modeling
 Introduction -- relational databases -- algebra, calculus and QBE --
object-oriented databases -- Track data model -- algebra, rule
language, and visual language

 Weeks 4, 5: Digital Media
 Digital signal processing -- audio -- digital audio -- video --
digital video -- audio compression -- video compression 

 Weeks 6, 7: Data Visualization
 Mental models - human information processing - Metaphors and
analogies -- Visualizing data: hierarchical, relational, object
oriented, time-based -- Visualizing queries: boolean, relational,
object-oriented, time-based

 Weeks 8-11: Student lectures
 Each student will present a lecture on a topic of their
choice. (It may relate to the fundamental concepts which underly their
projects).

 Weeks 12-15: Student projects
 The students will present the design and implementations for
their projects.




Lecture schedule (details)
(TOC)




(Messed up? You need to use netscape11b)



1st week
2nd week
3rd week
4th week
5th week


M
W
M
W
M
W
M
W
M
W


January
2
4
9
11
16
18
23
25
30
 


February
 
1
6
8
13
15
20
22
27
 


March
 
1
6
8
13
15
20
22
27
29


April
3
5
10
12
17
19
24
26
 
 





 January 9
 Chia-Lin, Bob: Demonstration of past work


 January 11

 Dirk: Data modeling  
 
These
slides
define the concept of a data model, introduce the
Entity-Relationship model, discuss the representation of
Entity-Relationship models in relational systems, and discuss the
representation of relations as physical files.  


 January 16
 Munish: Project Descriptions


 January 18

 Dirk: Data manipulation
 
These 
slides
introduce the relational algebra, relational calculus and SQL as
query languages for relational systems. 


 January 23

 Munish: Track data model
 
The track data model and an algebra for the track data model are
defined in 
 Gandhi, M and E.L. Robertson. 1994. 
The algebra is equivalent to a rule language which is defined in
 Gandhi, M, E.L. Robertson and D. Van Gucht. 1995. 


 January 25
 Munish: Implementation of the track data model

slides
introduce basic object data management concepts such as objects,
methods, class hierarchies, complex objects and query languages.  They
also discuss implementation aspects of object data management. 


 February 1

 Munish: Digital signal processing
 
Chapters 3 and 4 in
Pohlman, K.C. 1989
describe time sampling, aliasing, quantization and pulse code
modulation. 


 February 6

 Munish: Digital audio
 
Chapter 1 of 
Pohlman, K.C. 1989
introduces the basics of audio while chapters 4 and 5 indicate how
systems which record and reproduce digital audio are built.


 February 8

 Munish: Digital video

Chapter 2 of
Watkinson, J. 1990
introduces the basic principles behind video while chapters 3 and 5
indicate how digital video may be processed.  


 February 13

 Munish: Human computer interaction
 
Chapter 2 of 
Shneiderman, B. 1992
reviews the GOMS model of user interaction and the SSOA model of user
knowledge. Chapter 5 of the same discusses direct manipulation
interfaces. 


 February 15

 Ed: Visualizing relational queries (QBE)

An exposition of QBE using examples (!) may be found in
Zloof, M. 1977.


 February 20

 Munish: Visualizing boolean queries

The "picklist" approach to visualizing queries is given in
Weiland, W.J. and Shneiderman, B. 1993,
while the waterflow metaphor approach is given in 
Young, D. and Shneiderman, B. 1993. 
An introductory treatment to both these approaches is in chapter 11 of
Shneiderman, B. 1992.  

 Munish: Experimental methodology

Section II of 
Eberts, R.E. 1994
devotes itself to the empirical approach to user interface design.  The
first chapter of this section gives an overview of the experimental
methodology. 
A good illustration of the experimental methodology may be found in
Weiland, W.J. and Shneiderman,B. 1993.


 February 22
 Munish: Visualizing track queries


 February 27

 Arijit Sengupta: Structured Documents as Multimedia Databases

Documents have been a big source of information for almost all of the
history of human civilization. However, until recently, information in
documents was not being used propoerly, because of poor structuring of
documents. Introduceion to structured documents using "tags" or
"markups" have majorly changed this situation, and tagged electronic
texts are becoming more and more widespread as sources of information.
  
Markup languages such as SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language)
Goldfarb, Charles 1990 have been introduced
for creating structured documents, but extracting the information
based on the structures in the documents is still not a very simple
issue, and in most cases, it is ad hoc and based on primitive word
searches.
  
This talk would introduce structured documents and SGML, and discuss
some of the ways of extracting information out of tagged documents. In
particular, some present directions toward this area would be
discussed, along with examples, advantages and disadvantages.
 Lincoln Carr: Querying SGML Documents
 
The Standard Generalized Markup Language, or SGML, and the data type
definitions, or DTDs, built up from it provide the basis for storing
documents in a way that allows complex querying.  The Text Encoding
Initiative, or TEI, uses SGML to create standard DTDs for such
document types as poetry and drama.TEI,
1994 Currently, TEI has encoded a large body of poetry using its
standards into the English Poetry Database, for which a simple query
engine is available.  However, since the poems are not marked up using
the fullest potential of TEI's standard, many useful, more complex
types of queries are not presently possible.


 March 1

 Logic Seminar


 March 6

 Bob Penrod: The Evolution of Visualization Tools for Large 
Information Spaces
 
Large information spaces present several problems for
visualization. Such spaces require tools that visualize all the
necessary data and facilitate comprehension of global structure. Most
traditional tools provide a simple window that displays a limited
extent of data. This is problematic because (1) not all the data is
concurrently visible, (2) navigation through the data is slow, and (3)
no attempt at providing context is made.
  The Perspective Wall Mackinlay,
J.D., Robertson, G.G., Card, S.K, 1991 attempts to handle these
problems by integrating detail and context. We will examine two
precursors to the Perspective Wall, "generalized fisheye views"
Furnas, G.W., 1986 and the "bifocal
display" Spence, R., Apperley, M., 1982,
focusing in particular on the application of those ideas to 
linear information spaces.

 Weizhen Hu: Interactive Video Technology

Ordinary video applications only allow users to access and
replay movies passively. Interactive Video technology
introduced in 
 Yoshinobu Tonomura, et al. 1994
allows users to do more operations about the
video, such as grasping the main idea of the video (fast
browsing), searching, analyzing, and editing. Three topics are
talked about here: 1. video segmentation and feature extraction;
2. Fast Browing method; 3. new video interfaces.


 March 8

 Torrin Sanders: Hypermedia Product Evaluation
 ???
Xingchun Zheng: An Intelligent Multimedia System

Hypermedia provides poeple with a new way to combine different media into 
single artefacts.  These can be developed and marketed in the style of 
conventional media publications.  Multimedia technologies not only being the 
presentation of data stored as images, sound and video but also allow the 
incorporation of media specific input modes(eg. natural language, speech, 
pen gesture), and the generation of images, sound and video from more 
abstract formats. 
In Using an Intelligent Agent to Mediate Multibase Information Access 
W Behrendt, E Hutchinson, 
KG Jeffrey, CA Macnee, MD Wilson (1993), the MIPS Project 
 (multimedia 
presentation system) is introduced in the paper as  a presentation of  
an open pre-authored hypermedia network stored in the HyTime standard 
format with  dynamically created web nodes containing answers to conventional 
database queries. This illustrates how conventional hypermedia tools can be 
extended to include intelligent automatic generation of multimedia 
presentations from retrieved data. An example multimodel system(MMI2) is 
described to illustrate the technologies which could be brought to the 
market independently. 

The above concepts and ideas are still in the research stage.


 March 20


Qizhen Zhang: Video-on-Demand and Database Related Issues: An
Introduction 
 
Video-on-demand features a new form of information delivery that is
causing a great commotion in the industries of cable TV,
telecommunications, personal computers, and software.  In this
revolution, multimedia database design and management play an
indispesable role.  This talk briefly describes the architecture, the
technology, and the experimental implementations of this emerging
application.  By means of the description, potential database issues
are explored.  As an example, I am going to discuss Network Support for Dynamically Scaled Multimedia
Data Streams in some depth.

 Robert Fahey Video Object Servers and Video On-Demand

Recently, video on-demand has received quite a bit of attention in the
media.  However, the media rarely discuss how it will be implemented.
In this talk, I shall examine the requirements needed to support
real-time video, and how current technology meets these requirements.
I will also describe several approaches to providing on-demand video.
Some issues which will be investigated are: throughput requirements for
video, throughput and seektime for several secondary storage devices,
optimization/organization techniques to improve throughput/response time,
and several types of architectures to support video objects.

This presentation is based on five different papers, ranging from continuous
media storage to the cost effectiveness of Video On-Demand systems.  These
papers are: Lougher, P. and Shepherd, D. 1993, 
Rangan, P. and Vin, H. 1993,
Federighi, C. and Rowe, L. 1994,
Ghandeharizadeh, S. and Ramos, L. 1993, and
Doganata, Y. and Tantawi, A. 1994..



 March 22

 Kaushik Mody: An Introduction to ATM - Asynchronous Transfer Mode


Computer networks have revolutionized the way we communicate and
interact the data around the world. However with Distributed
Multimedia becoming norms rather than exception, the existing networks
are not able to support the high bandwidth and low latency
requirements of its applications. Asynchronous Transfer Mode, a
switching and multiplexing technique is described as a technology that
will allow total flexibility and efficiency to be achieved in
tomorrow's high speed, multi-service, multimedia networks.  This
presentation is based on the work by  Ronald
J. Vetter; David H. C. Du 1995 and B. G. Kim and P. Wang 1995.

 Alan Keahey: Multi-Resolution Information Display
 
This talk will take a look at some techniques for displaying
information at more than one level of resolution
simulataneously. While similar in scope to the recent talk given by
Bob Penrod, the focus will be more on the details of hyperbolic or
fisheye views, implementation issues, and possibilities for future
systems such as multi-focus systems.



 March 27

 Yong Jiang: Matadata in Video Databases
 
Video is composed of audio-visual information. Providing content based 
access to video data is essential for the sucessful integration of video 
into computers. Organizing video for content based access requires the use 
of video matadata. This papter explores the nature of video matadata. A data 
model for video databases is presented based on a study of the applilcations 
of video, the nature of video retrieval requests, and the features of video. 
The data model is used in the architectural framework of a video database. 
The current state of technology in video databases is summarized and research 
issues are highlighted.

 Aditya Khosla: Towards an optimal operating system for multimedia
 
My talk will be based on a survey paper that addresses key issues that an operating system
needs to possess in order to efficiently handle multimedia systems. The aspects that
I will discuss include Process Management and related scheduling strategies. I will
further talk about Resource Management , File Management and Memory
Management issues in this context, with  alternative algorithms
examined, and the options that best suit such systems.


 March 29

 Chia-Lin Chou: ???

 Julia Dymshitz:  Approaches to database interface design
 Approaches to human-computer interaction (HCI) can be broadly
classified into four categories:empirical, predictive modelling,
cognitive and anthropomorphic Eberts,
R.E. 1994.  Each of these approaches emphasizes a different aspect
of HCI, although many research studies fall into more than one
category. Cognitive and anthropomorphic approaches were applied
extensively to database interface design, producing a number of design
guidelines.  The usefulness of these guidelines for actual design will
be discussed in the context of advantages and disadvantages of each
approach. In addition, two articles (Williams,
M.D. 1984 and Eberts, R.E. and Bittianda,
K.P. 1993) will be described in greater detail to illustrate the
application of cognitive and anthropomorphic methods to database
interface issues.


 April 5

 Arijit Sengupta
 Lincoln Carr


 April 10

 Aditya Khosla
 Yong Jiang


 April 12

 Bob Penrod
 XingChun Zheng


 April 17

 Weizhen Hu
 Torrin Sanders


 April 19

 Kaushik Mody
 Alan Keahey


 April 24

 Julia Dymshitz
 Chia-Lin Chou


 April 26

 Bob Fahey
 Qizhen Zhang




Project schedule (overview)
(TOC)



 Week 2: Selection
 Select a project.

 Week 4: Proposal
 Propose the goals for the project

 Week 6: Iteration 1
 Write a user manual, implement critical elements

 Week 8: Iteration 2
 Refine user manual, implement significant elements

 Week 10: Iteration 3
 Implement almost all elements, measure performance

 Week 12: Iteration 4
 Restructure (if necessary) and complete the implementation.

 Week 14: Integration 
 Integrate system

 Week 16: Delivery 
 Deliver system and user manual



Project home pages
(TOC)




Kiosk Enhancements


MovieSpace


MovieWall


PerformanceTrack


TextTrack


Track Database Management System (TDBMS)


If you are new to HTML, you may want to look at 

A Guide to Authoring HTML Documents.



Project deliverables
(TOC)



 February 1
 Brief proposal
 February 15


 User manual
 The user manual will serve two purposes.  First, it will
serve as a guide for the user using your system.  Second, it will
serve as a precise specification of your project.  The manual should
have the following sections which answer the indicated questions


 System overview
 What does your system do? What does the user gain by using your
system?

 Audience
 Who are the users of your system? Why should the person reading your
manual read any further?

 Graphical user interface (for systems with a graphical
interface) 
 What are the different areas on the interface? What elements
exist in each area? How is each element manipulated and how does the
system respond to each manipulation?  What functionalities is the user
interface capable of performing?  How does the user interact with the
interface to achieve each of these functionalities?

 Programming interface (for systems with a programming
interface) 
 What functions are available?  What do they do?  What parameters
do they take? What is the effect of each parameter? What values are
returned? 

 Implementation: Iteration 1
 First, identify a set of capabilities to be implemented in this
iteration.  Second, ensure that your supervisor agrees with you on the
capabilities by February 8. Finally, implement the functionality by
the due date.  
Here are some criterion which may be used in choosing the capabilities
for implementation in iteration 1:

 they must be implementable by the due date,
 they should constitute a significant element of your system.  
 they should attack the high risk elements of your system.


 March 19


 User manual
 Complete your user manual to follow the guidelines above.
 Implementation: Iteration II
 Implement more than half of the required functionality.

 April 2


 Design document
 Prepare your design document
 Implementation: Iteration III
 Implement almost all of the desired functionality.

 April 26


 Handin
 Handin your user manual, design document, and implementation.



Development tools
(TOC)



Here are some starting points for each of the development tools that
will be used in the projects.



Digital Media Libraries
 

The IRIS Media Libraries provide a digital media software development
environment that includes audio, video, movie and compression
libraries. Check out the IRIS Digital Media Programming Guide
in the IRIS Insight Library. You may also get the contents of
the above guide in the postscript files here. The
documentation is divided into parts and the contents of each part may
be obtained by looking at Front.ps.


OpenInventor
 

OpenInventor is a library of objects and methods used to create
interactive 3D graphics applications.  Check out the  Inventor
Mentor in the IRIS Insight Library.

Tcl/Tk
 
Parts I and II in the Tcl/Tk reference will
allow  you to  use Tcl/Tk for your applications.  However, if you want
to extend Tcl/Tk, you will need parts III and IV . Besides the
book, you may want to subscribe to the newsgroup comp.lang.tcl and read the 
FAQ. 


Exodus
 
The Exodus Storage Manager is an object storage management system.
The User Manual and the Architecture Overview documents in the exodus
 home page
are essential documents for understanding the storage
manager. 




References (core lectures)
(TOC)



 Eberts, R.E. 1994


User Interface Design.

Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1994.


 Gandhi, M and E. L. Robertson. 1994



A Data Model for Audio-Video Data.


Technical Report #415, Computer Science Department, Indiana University.

 Gandhi, M , E. L. Robertson, and D. Van Gucht. 1995



Modeling and Querying Primitives for Digital Media.


Working paper.

 J. D. Mackinlay, G. G. Robertson, S. K. Card. 1991



The Perspective Wall: Detail and Context Smoothly Integrated

. 
Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems.  ACM, April 1991, pp. 173-179.

 Ousterhout, John K. 1994


Tcl and the Tk Toolkit.

Addison-Wesley, 1994.

 Pohlman, K.C. 1989


Principles of Digital Audio (Second Edition).

Howard W. Sams & Company, Indianapolis, 1989.

 R. Rao, S. K. Card, H.D. Jellinek, J. D. Mackinlay,
G. G. Robertson. 1992



The Information Grid: A Framework for Building Information Retrieval
and Retrieval-Centered Applications.

.
Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and
Technology. ACM Press, November 1992.

 G. G. Robertson, S. K. Card, J. D. Mackinlay. 1991



Information Visualization Using 3D Interactive Animation.

  
Communications of the ACM, v.36, n.4, 1993.

 G. G. Robertson, J. D. Mackinlay, S. K. Card. 1991



Cone Trees: Animated 3D Visualizations of Hierarchical Information.


Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems. ACM, April 1991, pp. 189-194. 

 Shneiderman, B. 1992


Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer
Interaction (Second Edition).  

Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, New York, NY, 1992.

 Watkinson, J. 1994a


The Art of Digital Audio.

Focal Press, 1994.

 Watkinson, J. 1990


The Art of Digital Video.

Focal Press, 1990.

 Watkinson, J. 1994b


The Art of Digital Video (Second Edition)

Focal Press, 1994.

 Weiland, W.J. and Shneiderman, B. 1993


A Graphical Query Interface based on Aggregation/Generalization
Hierarchies.

Information Systems, Vol 18, No. 4, pp 215-232, 1993.

 Young, D. and Shneiderman, B. 1993


A Graphical Filter/Flow Model for Boolean Queries: an Implementation
and experiment.

Information Systems, Vol 18, No. 4, pp 215-232, 1993.

 Zloof, M. M. 1977


Query-By-Example: A Data Base Language.

IBM System Journal, v.16, n.4, 1977.




References (student lectures)
(TOC)



 Goldfarb, Charles 1990


The SGML Handbook

Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1990

 TEI, 1994


Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding and Interchange

Text Encoding Initiative, University of Virginia, 1994

 Christophides,V; Abiteboul,S; Cluet, S; Scholl,M,1994


From Structured Documents to Novel Query Facilities

Sigmod Record, June 1994, p.313-324

  Gonnet, Gaston H. and Baetza-Yates, R; 1991


Lexicographical Indices for Text: Inverted Files Vs Pat Trees

University of Waterloo Technical Report no. TR-OED-91-01, 1991

 Yoshinobu Tonomura, et al. 1994


"Structured Video Computing",

IEEE MultiMedia, Vol. 1, No. 3, Fall 1994 

 Furnas, G.W., 1986


Generalized Fisheye Views

Proceedings of SIGCHI'86, pp. 16-23. 1986.

 Spence, R. and M. Apperley, 1982


Data Base Navigation: An Office Environment for the Professional

Behaviour and Information Technology, 1(1), pp. 43-54, 1982.

 Hoffman, Don; Speer, Michael; Fernando, Gerard, 1993


Network Support for Dynamically Scaled Multimedia Data Streams

Lecture Notes in Computer Science 846: Network and Operating System Support for Digital Audio and Video, 1993.

 Sims, David, 1994


Video-on-Demand Hinges on Integration

IEEE Software, Nov. 1994, pp. 102-103.

 Miller, Matthew D., 1994


A Scenario for the Deployment of Interactive Multimedia Cable Television Systems in the United States in the 1990's

Proceedings of The IEEE, Vol. 82, No. 4, April 1994, pp. 585-589.

 Zoglin, Richard, 1993


When the Revolution Comes What Will Happen to ...

Time, April 12, 1993, pp. 56-58.

 Lougher, P. and Shepherd, D. 1993


The Design of a Storage Server for Continuous Media

The Computer Journal, vol. 36, no. 1, 1993.

 Rangan, P. and Vin, H. 1993


Efficient Storage Techniques for Digital Continuous Multimedia

IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 5, no. 4, 1993.

 Federighi, C. and Rowe, L. 1994


A Distributed Hierarchical Storage Manager for a Video-on-Demand System

Symp. on Elec. Imaging Sci. & Tech., 1994.

 Ghandeharizadeh, S. and Ramos, L. 1993


Continuous Retrieval of Multimedia Data Using Parallelism

IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 5, no. 4, 1993.

 Ronald, J. Vetter; David, H. C. Du 1995 


ATM Concepts, Architecture and Protocols

COMMUNICATIONS of the ACM, February 1995 - Volume 38, Number 2

 Kim, B. G.; Wang, P 1995 


ATM Network: Goals and Challenges

COMMUNICATIONS of the ACM, February 1995 - Volume 38, Number 2

 Doganata, Y. and Tantawi, A. 1994


Making a Cost-Effective Video Server

IEEE Multimedia, p. 22 - 30, Winter 1994.

 Sarkar, M., Brown, M., 1994


Graphical Fisheye Views

Communications of the ACM, Dec. 1994, Vol 37, No 1

 Mackinlay, J.D., Robertson, G.G., Card, S.K. 1991


Perspective Wall: Detail and Context Smoothly Integrated

Proceedings of SIGCHI'91, pp. 173-179.

W Behrendt, E Hutchinson, KG Jeffrey, CA Macnee, MD Wilson (1993)

Using an Intelligent Agent to Mediate Multibase Information Access

Proceedings of the Workshop on Cooperating Knowledge Based Systems, 
Keele, September 1993

 Steinmetz, R.,  1995


Analyzing the Multimedia Operating System

IEEE Multimedia, Spring 1995, pages 68-84

 Jain, R., and Hampapur, A., 1994


Metadata in Video Databases

SIGMOD RECORD, Vol.23,NO.4,December 1994

 Eberts, R.E. 1994 


User interface design

Prentice Hall, 1994

 Williams, M.D. 1984


What makes RABBIT run?

Int. J. Man-Machine Studies, 21, 333-352

 Eberts, R.E. and Bittianda, K.P. 1993


Preferred mental models for direct manipulation and command-based interfaces

Int. J. Man-Machine Studies, 38, 765-785



[
 
Indiana University
|
 
Computer Science
]
 


gandhim@indiana.edu




