MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 22:42:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8948
Last-Modified: Friday, 22-Nov-96 06:51:04 GMT



 The Cub's Den 










 Introduction 
I am the lion cub, and this is my head shot.
Want to know more about me? Read through this page.
I will tell you what I like, what I don't like, what cheers me up and what bores me to death. Want to date me?
Drop me a note, and yes, a photo is fine too. Find me offensive? Calm down, just remember, no one gets hurt.
 What I Like 
Like many people, I like alot of things, here you go:


Arts

I am not an artist but I like colorful pictures alot. I am especially like the visual effects rendered by different combinations
of colors.
Purple and yellow,
blue and green,
purple and green,
purple and white,
(I am sure I got their technical names all wrong) they all are simple and generic colors yet they all present their unique
character of themselves. Unfortunately, after numerous painting lessons I have attended during my youth, I remain the worst painter among
my clan. My friend 
Victor on the other hand is a talented computer artist. He has his own
cyber art gallery, that you might want to take a look at. My favourite
picture of his is the
"Gold Fish".

Music
I am not a musician either. Nor am I crazy about Tina Turner. (And of course I will turn around and run for life when I see Michael Jackson). But after many
(I won't tell you how long, just too long) years of learning piano (and gave up at the end), I have come to appreciate a little classical music.
Almost all my later piano years I've been playing Stephen Heller(1813-1888)'s boring work. I personally rather prefer the work of Schbert.
I have never developped a taste for Jazz (some of them are GREAT! but most of them... I just don't care for). Sure, I like some pop music too. 
Some of my best pals formed a band called "Siren" back a few years ago. I am not going say how good they are but I had 
tremendous fun going to the band's practicing sessions.

Travel

I have done some serious travelling during my youth and have been to many exotic places. Excluding my home country, I've stepped foot 
on the soil of more than 20 countries. Lucky me I have seen some of the greatest wonders of the world, such as
the Giza Pyramids at Giza, Egypt, the Mayan pyramids in Chichan Itza, Mexico, the lost Inca city of Machu Piccu near Cuzco, Peru,
the Great Walls in China and many more. I have also the chance to visit some of the most artistic buidlings on the face of the earth
such as the St. Peter's Cathedral of Vatican, Taj Mahal in Agra, India and the Opera House in Sydney, Australia. I will never forget my flying
over the mysterious Nazca lines;
my walking (for 2 days) to Nepal from Tibet; my 4 hour custom check (where they have my can sardine X-rayed and
mistook my 1-lt plastic Coke bottle as a missle war head) at the port of Hyfa, Isarel.
My favourite city in the world is Queens Town, New Zeland, which is a town wrap tight by splendid sceneries.
Other cities that fascinate me includes Kathmandu of Nepal, Istanbul of Turkey, La Paz of Bolivia, Jerusalem of Isarel (or for some Palestine, 
or for some, Jordan, I don't really care) and Cairo of Egypt.
 What I dislike 
Don't get me wrong, I do not promote hatred, but am annoyed by behaviour of some...


Irresponsible smokers

As much as I hate people smoking, I can't care less if they lock themselves up at home and smoke till lung cancer get them.
Smokers are generally irresponsible. Not only when they are killing themseleves, they are also 
endangering the lifes of their neighbours, when they smoke in public, not to mention the unpleasant stinky smell they bring about. 
(Yes, smokers, you stink!) Most smokers are irresponsible also in a way that most of them do not dispose of their cigarettes
properly. All they do is throw them on the ground, or worse still, on the lawn or in the bushes, as if they will vapourize
themselves. These people have no concern about someone actually has to pick up their stinky-saliva-filled-little piece of crap up one by one.
Only if one be a little perceptive will notice that the majority of garbage on the ground are cigarettes. You don't see coke can
very often, you don't see candy wrapper very often, but cigarettes are everywhere. My little experiment conducted over
a period of 2 weeks shows that over 99% of garbage I see on the ground are cigarettes. And I just don't understand why someone
would think smokers have style......


That's it? Of course not, more to come... maybe after I am done with school works...




 Click here to return to Mark Ng's home page.


