MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 21:29:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2594
Last-Modified: Monday, 16-Dec-96 06:39:23 GMT



The E-Mail Virus


The E-Mail Virus
Every once in a while I get something over the internet warning me about e-mail 
messages with particular subject headings. One is led to believe that cataclysmic 
things will happen to one's hard drive if one tries to read such messages. I find 
that it would be next to impossible for this to happen.

Files in a computer can be treated as either data or executable programs. They 
actually enter the central processing unit from different paths depending on their 
purpose. Executable programs do something: data is information.

A virus can only be active (do something) if it is a piece of an executable; if 
however it is in file that is treated only as data, it can do no harm. 

In almost all cases your e-mail program will treat your messages as data. Now 
in addition to a main message, you may get attachments. Some of these may be out-
and-out executables, and some - like a word processing file - may contain macros 
that could launch a virus; but reading the main message would not run these or any 
other executable programs that did not exist on the system before the message 
arrived.

There is another issue. In order for a virus to effectively spread through the 
internet, it should be able to run on the computers it encounters; however each 
type of computer requires a different kind of executable. Not only do you have 
Macs and PCs but you would also get Sun workstations, Hewlett-Packard mainframes, 
Vax machines, Crays, and so on. To infect all of these systems, a virus would need 
to have a piece of executable taylored for each one; furthermore the virus creator 
would have to have a detailed understanding of each computer type in order to 
cause similar damage on all systems.

What we have here is not a computer virus but a computer rumor: it is the 
original message that provides the "warning" - propagated not by the innards of a 
computer but by the users. If you have forwarded such a rumor or know someone else 
who has, please send a message not to spread these things further.

In saying this I acknowledge that there are some crafty people out there. If 
you ever do get a virus by JUST reading an e-mail message, I would be most 
interested in learning about it. Once you have returned your system to normal, 
please write to me at landrum@mail.utexas.edu .

Robert G. Landrum
December 16, 1996

Return to Home Page.



