MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 22:47:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4052
Last-Modified: Wednesday, 06-Nov-96 21:03:45 GMT



Quotes screaming for Formal Methods

Quotes screaming for Formal Methods
This is a list of quotes that may convince you that some kind of
formalism is needed in the development of critical software. 

From the Arianne 5 Crash report, July 1996:
"... the view had been taken that software should be considered correct
until it is shown to be at fault." 
Read the full report

The *Daily Telegraph* 1 Oct 1996: "When Failure is Out of the Question"
by Paul Forster

National Air Traffic Services Ltd., part of the Civil Aviation Authority, is
close to completing a new (pounds) 300 million centre at Swanick . . .  "It's
all digital and probably the most advanced ATC setup anywhere," says Dr John
Barrett, the Swanick project director, almost nonchalantly. "It's so complex
I have difficulty in explaining it even to my board," he says.  Throughout,
safety is paramount. The whole system is made up of networked workstations
rather than a central mainframe, so there is no single point of failure. . .
The system totals roughly two million lines of software, but like most
software it is behind schedule and is still being debugged .  . . Operations
are not now due to begin until the winter of 1997 . . .  "With ATC it's
obvious that we simply have to remove all the faults in the code, and we are
now working 24 hour a day, seven days a week," says Barrett. "Our
over-arching requirement is that the system has to be completely safe."


Posted to Risk Digest 18.50, by Brian Randell, Dept. of Computing Science, University of Newcastle

September 16 1996 issue of *Aviation Week & Space Technology*
(pp. 24-25).
from David A. Fulghum's "Hard Lessons in Iraq Lead to New Attack
Plan" in the September 16 1996 issue of *Aviation Week & Space Technology*
(pp. 24-25).


The article states: "Bomb damage assessment of the initial cruise missile
strike indicates that three of the 10 targets attacked by 13 Air Force
CALCMs (Conventional Air-Launched Cruise Missiles) emerged with "no
detectable damage," according to a U.S. intelligence report.  The Boeing
built CALCMs, converted from Cold War-era nuclear weapons at a cost of
$165,000 each, were launched from two B-52H bombers over the Persian Gulf."

Apparently: "Part of the problem with the CALCMs were that they were fired
at targets they were not designed to destroy, a product of hasty planning,
according to a senior Pentagon official. Air Force success rates were
further deflated because of missile computer programming quirks."

Further on: "Another CALCM target escaped damage because of a software
targetting quirk left over from its nuclear role. If two CALCMs are aimed at
the same target at the same time, one of the missiles will re-aim itself at
the next highest priority target. In the initial raid, one CALCM missed the
target while the other went on to the next site."


Posted to RISK Digest 18.56 by Kofi Crentsil (crentsil.k@atomcon.gc.ca)

*Electronic Engineering Times*, 28 Oct 1996 "Software explosion rattles car makers"

Automakers [are facing] runaway growth in the lines of code their engineers
must write and manage as microprocessors take over automotive functions...
``Software is where the problem is today,'' said William Powers, VP of
research at Ford.  ``Today, if you change a line of code, you're looking at
the potential for some major problems.  Hardware is very predictable, very
repeatable.  Software is in much more of a transient state.''  The volume of
code is exploding as processors proliferate behind the dashboard and under
the hood.  The typical auto has 10 to 15 processors; high-end cars can have
as many as 80 ... ``An engine controller can have 100,000 lines of code''
[according to a Bosch VP].  


Posted to RISK digest 18.57 by Daniel P. B. Smith  dpbsmith@world.std.com


Jacob Kornerup


