MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 21:29:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14091
Last-Modified: Wednesday, 31-Jan-96 18:01:56 GMT

WWW Pages on Guitars


WWW Pages on Guitars


	Sanjay Mishra composer-Guitarist
BluesVille
	- Specializing in Vintage Guitars/Antique Phonographs and 
	Music Boxes, and other collectibles

Guitar 
	Lessons by Federico Chieli

	Learn to Burn Rock Guitar Videos - Curt Mitchell
	shows you how to play Van Halen, Jimi Hendrix, Eric Clapton, Randy
	Rhodes, Stevie Ray Vaugn, and Jimmie Paige.  

DW Labs: Effects for
	Guitars
Bouncing Buddha Productions - artist owned indie label about to release the debut CD of singer-songwriter-Guitarist, Zola.

Hiljaiset Levyt - Guitarrock label from Finland

Rolling Stones Video Contest - Win Ron Wood's Guitar in PolyGram Video"s Rolling Stones - Live at the Max contest.

Zavett, Denny - Utilizes Guitar, song, and comedy to form a winning combination.

Progression - Music, arts and culture magazine with a Guitar slant. Lively, provocative, innovative, and informative.

FolkBook Index - Periodicals - subscription information, discographies for printed and online magazines in the musical fields of Folk Music, Bluegrass, Acoustic Blues, and Fingerstyle Acoustic Guitar.

Guitar World Online - Hot interviews, online lessons, celebrity sound files, onscreen tablature, product reviews, random chatter and more.

Total Guitar - Total Guitar is the UK's newest and most innovative Guitar magazine.

Vintage Guitar magazine and Vintage Guitar Classics - Dedicated to vintage Guitars and other stringed instruments together with the award-winning, full color quarterly, Vintage Guitar Classics.

3Chords - Learn to play the Guitar with James Quill Smith. Formerly with Billy Joel, 3 Dog Night, and John Mayall. Smith makes it easy to play the Guitar.

Academy of Flamenco Guitar - Comprehensive Flamenco Guitar Course (Text, Audio, Video).

Hutchinson's Guitar Instructional Videos
Granger's Fiddle Tunes For Guitar - A collection of over 500 fiddle tunes in Guitar tablature

Jammin-Johns: Guitar Body Toilet Seats! - Made from solid hand-rubbed Appalachian oak, Jammin" Johns come in six, classic body styles with both round or oval seat designs.



Entertainment:Music:Artists:Bogguss, Suzy
Suzy Bogguss Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Brown, Buster
Little Billy Brown Classic Acoustic Rock - Acoustic Rock Guitar, Vocals, and Drums

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Carpenter, Mary Chapin
Mary Chapin Carpenter Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Cohen, Leonard
Acoustic Guitar Song Collection - Guitar tablatures I've written down, musical excerpts , interviews and related information on Paul Simon, Leonard Cohen, Serge Gainsbourg

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Dire Straits
Dire Straits Guitar Picture Page - A WWW-page full of Dire Straits' Guitar pictures!

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Guns n' Roses
Guns n Roses: Guitar Tabs
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Indigo Girls
Indigo Girls Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Karlzen, Mary
Mary Karlzen Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:lang, k. d.
k. d. lang Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Lavin, Christine
Christine Lavin Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Machines of Loving Grace
Machines of Loving Grace [nando.net] - is quartet whose music obliterates all considerations of genre by using stabbing Guitars, pulsating keyboards, and a wide variety of rhythms to fuse industrial, post-punk, and melodic pop into a unique synthesis.

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Marillion
Guitar Tablatures
Entertainment:Music:Artists:pOppY
pOppY [circus.com] - Raw, wrenched, and twisted Guitar noise tempered by clean and lively bass lines and tight and grooving drum beats with a voice above it all both smooth and dynamically manic.

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Richey, Kim
Kim Richey Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Sebadoh
Sebadoh [mit.edu] - The official home page to one of the best indie rock bands in America at the moment. Heartfelt lyrics, catchy Guitar riffs andmelodic bass lines.

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Smashing Pumpkins
Smashing Pumpkins (Steve Simonsen) - A collection of images, Guitar tabs, lyrics and articles relating to the Smashing Pumpkins

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Sugar
Bob Mould - Contains...images, FAQ, lyrics, Guitar tabs,  interviews, and links to other Bob Mould, Sugar,  Husker Du fans

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Thin Lizzy
Sykes, John - Blue Murder - rock Guitarist

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Torn, David
Torn Web - The web site for David Torn, voted 'Best Experimental Guitarist' by the readers of Guitar Player Magazine USA.

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Vega, Suzanne
Suzanne Vega Guitar Chords
Entertainment:Music:Artists:Whitesnake
Sykes, John - Blue Murder - rock Guitarist

Entertainment:Music:Artists:Williams, Lucinda
Lucinda Williams Guitar Chords
#Guitar - Ze Home Page.

Entertainment:Humor, Jokes, and Fun
Easy Air Guitar by R. - Learn to play the Air Guitar from the Master himself, R. "Bud" Philson. Remember,"If it's a Philson, it's gotta be rock and roll."

Entertainment:Movies and Films:Soundtracks
Acoustic Routes - Sample the soundtrack CD from the documentary film of the 60's British acoustic Guitar revival with Bert Jansch, Brownie McGhee and Billy Connolly.

Entertainment:Music:Archives
Clorine Guitar Archive
Entertainment:Music:Artists
Austin, Rick - Country entertainer, Singer, songwriter, Guitarist Custom built light gold sluicebox system.
Beamer, Keola - is one of Hawai'i's premier singer/songwriters, arrangers, composers, and slack key Guitarist
Big Star Guitar Chord Archive
California Guitar Trio
Cornel - a 4-piece belgian Guitar band with fierce tempo breaks and loads of melody.
Flux Oersted - Subversive digital mayhem with real Guitars and fake Guitars, drum machines and samplers.
Foley, Sue - Canadian blues Guitarist.
Grubbs. Todd - Grubbworm - entertaining and informative look at Guitar instrumentalist Todd Grubbs and his latest CD release "Combination"
Henderson, Bugs - He mixes together blues, jazz, rock, pop, country, surf and anything else that can be played on a Guitar in a hot spicy mix.
Hoey, Gary - Blazing electric Guitarist of Endless Summer II fame.
Hume, Billy - A multi-instrumental artist, Billy plays primarily mandolin, Guitar, hammered dulcimer, bayan and an occasional plastic trash can.
Kilbride, Pat - Irish folk-rock Guitarist and singer songwriter
lovesliescrushing - lovesliescrushing, noise, drone, shoegazer, bliss, IPR, pROJEKT, Guitar
Lynyrd Skynyrd - some lyrics and soon to come Guitar tablatures.
Macpherson, Bill - Worldbeat/fusion Guitarist homepage featuring his releases Many Rivers and Jungle Party.
Okapi Guitar Band
Osborn, Michael - blues Guitarist and performer. Includes bio, audio clips, and CD order info, and performance schedule.
Perry, Harry - the crazy, roller-skating, turbaned, electric Guitar playing Venice Beach icon
Robbie Laws - Robbie Laws is a blues Guitar virtuoso in the Northwest U.S.
Sanction - a Guitar-driven progressive metal band, consisting of Eric Kielb and Joe Milausnic
Schenkman, Eric - The former Spin Doctor Guitarist is now in cyberspace.
scrub - noise/ Guitar/ improvisation group from Atlanta.
Sons of God - a Detroit based Guitar, bass, and drums band (some synth)
Sykes, John - Blue Murder - rock Guitarist
Those Two Girls - Ruth Johnson and Kellie Knott, a singing, Guitar playing duo from the Twin Cities Metro Area.
Ward, Michael - American Guitarist
Zola - a singer-songwriter-Guitarist represented by Bouncing Buddha Productions. Zola is preparing to release his debut CD with cellist Eric Stein.
 
