MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 15:58:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2793
Last-Modified: Wednesday, 30-Nov-94 21:24:48 GMT

 FPGA Placement and Routing 
 FPGA Placement and Routing


The abstracts of papers by members of this group in the above area are 
listed below. Please use the email addresses at the end of each
abstract to get further details.


  Shashidhar Thakur, D.F. Wong, and S. Muthukrishnan.
 Algorithms for a Switch Module Routing Problem. 
Proceedings of the Euro-DAC, September 1994. 

We consider a switch module routing problem 
for symmetric array FPGAs. The work is motivated by
two applications. The first is that of efficiently
evaluating switch module designs. The second
is that of evaluating the routability of global routing
paths for a placement on this architecture.
Only an approximate 
algorithm was previously known for this problem. In this paper, 
we present an optimal algorithm for the problem based on 
integer linear programming. Experimental results consistently
show that our algorithm is very efficient for practical sized
switch modules. We further improve this technique, by doing
some pre-processing on the given switch module.
We also identify interesting special cases of the problem which can be 
solved optimally in polynomial time.

Contact: thakur@cs.utexas.edu
 Yao-Wen Chang, Shashidhar Thakur, Kai Zhu, D.F. Wong.
 A New Global Routing Algorithm for FPGAs.
 Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
       Computer-Aided Design, November 1994. 


As in traditional ASIC technologies, FPGA routing usually consists
of two steps: global routing and detailed routing. Unlike
existing FPGA detailed routers, which can take full advantage
of the special structures of the programmable routing
resources, FPGA global routing algorithms still greatly
resemble their counterparts in the traditional ASIC
technologies. In particular, the routing 
congestion information of a switch block essentially is still measured
by the numbers of available rows and columns in the switch
block. Since the internal architecture of a switch block
decides what can route through the block, the traditional
measure of routing capacity is no longer accurate. In this
paper, we present an accurate measure of switch block
routing capacity. Our new measure considers the
exact positions of the switches inside a switch block.
Experiments with a global router based on these ideas
show an average improvement of 38% in the channel width
required to route some benchmark circuits using 
a popular switch block, compared with an
algorithm based on the traditional methods for congestion control.

Contact: yaowen@cs.utexas.edu

