MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 22:52:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5889
Last-Modified: Monday, 28-Oct-96 03:14:31 GMT




















Ken Harker - Academics



Ken Harker - 
Academics



I am a 1995 graduate of Dartmouth
College, with a Bachelor of Arts degree.  I graduated Cum Laude, and
With Honors in my major subject of Computer Science.  I was a double 
major in Computer Science and 
Asian Studies.
Within the Asian Studies major, my focus has been China and Chinese Studies.  
I have had three years of (Mandarin) Chinese language, including a summer at 
Beijing Normal University.  Within the 
Computer Science discipline, I have become more and more interested in 
distributed systems computing issues.
I am presently the recipient of an MCD Fellowship attending the PhD program 
in the Computer Sciences at the University of 
Texas at Austin.  I am also a pledge of the 
Upsilon Pi Epsilon Computer
Science Honor Society.


Computer Science

 The University of 
      Texas at Austin Department of the Computer Sciences

      Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science

      The Association for Computing Machinery

      My research publications
 
      My independent undergraduate honors thesis

      AgentTCL at Dartmouth College

      The Cilk research project

      The Carbonated Orange Beverage Research Association

China Studies


      Dartmouth College Department of Asian Studies

      Beijing Normal University

      China Home Page

      Chinese Community Information Center

      Asian Studies World Wide Web Virtual Library

      An Index of Sinology Resources




















Last Updated 10/27/96
kharker@cs.utexas.edu






The World Wide Web facility on www.cs.utexas.edu is provided
as a service to the faculty, students, staff, and guests of the Department of
Computer Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin. The views and opinions
expressed on this page are the sole responsibility of the author,
Kenneth E.Harker, and do
not necessarily reflect the views or opinions of the Department of Computer
Sciences, The University of Texas at Austin, or The University of Texas System
or its Board of Regents.

