MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 14:43:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7283
Last-Modified: Thursday, 12-Dec-96 21:33:48 GMT

Roberto Bayardo's Papers

[  Journal Articles  |  Conference Papers  |  Refereed Workshop Papers  |  Technical Reports  ]


 Journal Articles  

 Roberto J. Bayardo Jr. and 
    Daniel P. Miranker. 
      An optimal
     backtrack algorithm for tree-structured constraint satisfaction
     problems.  Artificial Intelligence 71(1), 159-181, 1994.

     Presents a top-down algorithm for solving tree-structured
     constraint satisfaction problems in linear time and evaluates its 
     average-case performance empirically. 
(Not available on-line) 


 Conference Papers  

 Roberto J. Bayardo Jr. and
    Daniel P. Miranker. 
      Processing Queries for First-Few Answers. 
     In  Proc. of the 
     
     Fifth Int'l Conf. on Information and Knowledge Management 
     ,  45-52, Rockville,
     Maryland, 1996. 

   Describes a probabalistic method for predicting costs of first-answer query
   plans under a modified pipelined-join execution model. 
  cikm96.ps.Z 
 (Compressed PostScript, 92k)  
  Roberto J. Bayardo Jr.  and 
      Robert Schrag.  
      Using CSP look-back
     techniques to solve exceptionally hard SAT instances.
     In  Proc. of the Second Int'l Conf. on Principles
     and Practice of Constraint Programming (Lecture Notes in Computer 
     Science 1118) , 46-60, Springer, 1996.

     CSP look-back techniques (CBJ, learning), not widely used in
     existing SAT algorithms, turn out to be indispensable for solving
     instances which are "exceptionally hard". A new procedure
     we define generates such instances consistently. 
  cp96.ps.Z 
 (Compressed PostScript, 90k)
 Procedures used in this paper are 
     available in the toolkit linked below. Click 
      here for a brief description of its contents.
       ehi_tool.tar.Z (v1.01)
 (Tar'ed and compressed SPARC executables, 298k) 
 Roberto J. Bayardo Jr. and 
    Daniel P. Miranker. 
      A complexity analysis of space-bounded learning algorithms for the 
     constraint satisfaction problem.
     In  Proc. of the 13th National Conf. on Artificial
     Intelligence,  298-304, 1996. 

     Analyzes the effects of space-bounded learning 
     (a.k.a. constraint-recording) schemes on the runtime complexity of 
     backtrack search.  
  aaai96.ps.Z
 (Compressed PostScript, 97k)  
 Roberto J. Bayardo Jr. and 
    Daniel P. Miranker. 
      On the space-time 
     trade-off in solving constraint satisfaction problems.
     In  Proc. of the 14th Int'l Joint Conf. on 
     Artificial Intelligence, 558-562, 1995.

     From the perspective of achieving tractable constraint satisfaction
     by	restricting constraint graph structure, extensive use of space may
     be of limited benefit.    ijcai95.ps.Z
  (Compressed PostScript, 47k)  
 J. C. Browne, A. Emerson, M. G. Gouda, 
    D. P. Miranker, 
     A. Mok, R. J. 
     Bayardo Jr., S. Chodrow, D. Gadbois, F. Haddix, T. W. Hetherington, 
     L. Obermeyer, D.-C. Tsou, C.-K. Wang, and R. Wang.  A new
     approach to modularity in rule-based programming.  
     In  Proc. of the Sixth Int'l Conf. on Tools
     with Artificial Intelligence,  18-25, IEEE Press, 1994. 

     Describes a purely declarative method for introducing modularity into 
     forward-chaining rule-based languages, and its embodiment in the
     syntax of the Venus rule language. 
  ictai94.ps.Z 
 (Compressed PostScript, 372k)  


 Refereed Workshop Papers 

  D. P. Miranker, 
     Roberto J. Bayardo Jr., and V. Samoladas. 
      Query Evaluation as Constraint Search; An Overview of Early 
     Results. 
     In  Proc. of the Workshop on Constraints and Databases 
     at the Second Int'l Conf. on Principles and Practice of 
     Constraint Programming (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 
     volume to be determined),  Springer, 1997. 

     Overview of various results on applying constraint processing 
     techniques to query processing. 
  cp96db_lncs.ps.Z 
 (Compressed PostScript, 62k)  


  Technical Reports  

 R. J. Bayardo Jr., B. Bohrer, R. Brice, A. Cichocki, J. Fowler,
     S. Helal, V. Kashyap, T. Ksiezyk, G. Martin, M. Nodine, M. Rashid,
     M. Rusinkiewicz, R. Shea, C. Unnikrishnan, A. Unruh, and D. Woelk.
      Infosleuth: Semantic Integration of Information in Open and 
     Dynamic Environments. 
     Technical Report MCC-INSL-088-96, Microelectronics and Computer 
     Technology Corporation, 1996. 

     Describes agent-based architecture for integrating heterogeneous
     information bases in an ever-changing network of information 
     sources. 
     (PostScript available through the 
      InfoSleuth Project 
     .)
 Roberto J. Bayardo Jr..
      Dealing with Duplicate Tuples in Multi-Join Query Processing. 
     Technical Report TR-96-11, University of Texas at Austin, 
     Dept. of Computer Sciences, May 1996. 

     Presents and evaluates several schemes for handling duplicate
     tuple elimination during optimization and execution of large
     select-project-join queries. 
  TR-96-11.ps.Z 
 (Compressed PostScript, 67k)  
 Roberto J. Bayardo Jr..
      Enhancing Query Plans for Many-Way Joins. 
     Technical Report TR-95-09, University of Texas at Austin, 
     Dept. of Computer Sciences, March 1995. 

     Proposes a method for annotating query plans with additional operators
     in order to efficiently produce the query result in the form of a
     directionally reduced acyclic database.  
  TR-95-09.ps.Z 
 (Compressed PostScript, 72k)  




Back to  my home page.

