MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 22:49:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3653
Last-Modified: Wednesday, 04-Oct-95 21:09:15 GMT


Zen Timer Code

Zen Timer Code

I have implemented a class library in C++ that uses an undocumented
feature of the Intel(tm)
Pentium(tm) processor to very precisely time your executable code for
purposes of profiling. Information about this feature and other
undocumented Pentium features is available
here. Simultaneous timing of any
number of routines is supported, as well as suspending and resuming
the timing at any point during the timed interval.



This code was inspired by Michael Abrash's excellent book  Zen of Code
Optimization.



My code works by accessing a 64-bit register in the Intel Pentium
processor that is incremented on every clock cycle.  On a 100 MHZ
Pentium, this gives a clock resolution of 10 nanoseconds (one cycle),
and a maximum time interval of about 5,800 years.



This code keeps track of the minimum, maximum, and average time
intervals for the pieces of code that you are profiling.  In addition,
it is possible to specify a dribble file that will record every
interval of time measured.



This code has been implemented and tested on a Pentium running Linux
1.2.13 with gcc 2.7.0 and the GNU assembler version
cygnus/linux-2.5.2l.15.  To use this code, you must patch your
assembler with the supplied patch file.



Click here to download a copy of the
Zen timer code.



Click here to
download a copy of the patch file for the GNU assembler.



Click here to download a test program
that makes use of the timer code.



I also developed two useful utilities for use with the Zen Timer.
The first converts a time dribble file into an ascii (human
readable) version.



Click here to download the time2ascii
code.



The second converts a time dribble file into an ascii histogram file
(suitable for use with a spreadsheet for example).



click here to download the time2histo
code.


An important note on accounting for the overhead caused by the
timer itself


The zen timer introduces some overhead into every timed interval by
virtue of it having to execute a few instructions to do the profiling.
In an attempt to account for this overhead, I have defined some macros
in the file zentimer.h that have overhead values that work for my
system.



I have, however, found that there are a number of different factors
that can affect the overhead introduced by running the timer.  In
particular, I suggest that you not use x-windows while using the timer
as it seems to add particularly unpredictable overheads to the timing
results.  Also, different disks, or a different system board can cause
these overheads to change.  You should try running the timer on your
system with my small test program, and see if you get an average
interval of 0 cycles.  If not, adjust the overhead macros in
zentimer.h until you do.





  Last updated 10/03/95
Mark Johnstone.
  Any  suggestions, comments welcome.
Department of Computer Sciences
  at  UT Austin 

  Click to send e-mail to 
  Mark Johnstone 


