MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 06-Jan-97 21:16:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 16003
Last-Modified: Friday, 09-Aug-96 20:19:41 GMT

MST3K Catch Phrase Catalog

The MST3K Catch Phrase Catalog
Created by a Cast of Usenet Thousands
Updated July 27th, 1995
Compiled by Cliff Chaput





Here is the latest version of the MST3K Catch Phrase Catalog.  I have added the
catch phrases suggested to me via email or news.  If you know of any catch
phrases that are not on this list, please let me know.
A "catch phrase" is a phrase that is repeated in more than one episode of MST3K
with no significant content alterations.  By these rules, running gags internal
to a single show (e.g., "James Arness... I mean Peter Graves!" from _It
Conquered the World_) and volatile context- based phrase changes (e.g., "Jim
Henson's Ghandi Babies", "This week on 'Tormented'", etc.) are disqualified.  A
good rule of thumb: if you can use the phase in several conversations without
changing it at all, it's probably a good catch phrase.  (Test this rule at your
own risk!)
Also, quotes here are listed as they "appear" in MST3K, and not necessarily in
their original form.  The reason is that I intend this to be a Catch Phrase
Catalog, not a Catch Phrase Sources Catalog.
 The list is alphabetized for use with the MST3K Drinking Game.
Enjoy.


A planet where apes evolved from men? (Planet of the Apes)
Again? (a la Rocky Squirrel) (The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show)
Again with the finger!  (The
Sunshine Boys[?])
Ahhh, Ricky...  (I Love Lucy)
'Allo, Sigfried!  'Allo, Roy! (Sigfried and Roy)
Allright?  S'allright! (Senor Wences)
Am I a CLOWN?!  Do I AMUSE YOU?! (GoodFellas)
Ancient Chinese secret, huh?  (commercial)
Animels vill be bred und SLAUGHTERED! (Dr. Strangelove)
And there, on the door handle, was a HOOK! (Traditional campfire story)
Are you known for your work in the theater? (What's My Line?)
Are you talking to me?  (Taxi Driver)
ATTICA!  ATTICA!  ATTICA!  (Dog Day Afternoon/Attica)

Beware of the dwarf. (Foul Play)
Bite me!
Boy, boy, crazy boy...  (West Side Story)
Bring out your dead. (Monty Python and the Holy Grail)
By this time my lungs were aching for air. (Sea Hunt)

Charlie, they took my thumbs! (The Pope of Greenwich Village)
Chili peppers burn my gut. (Side Hackers)
Conform...conform...

Damn you all to hell!  (Planet of the Apes)
Do not bring your evil here. (Swamp Thing)
Do you find me pleasing?  Do I please you? (Star Trek, TOS, pilot)
Do you want to go faster?  (Yea!)  Raise your hands if you want to go faster!  (Yea!)
Does this bug you?  I'm not touching you.
Don't look at me!  Don't you look at me!  Mommy!  MOMMY!  (Blue Velvet)
Don't you do it! (An Officer and a Gentleman)

Exterminate!  Exterminate! (Dr. Who)

Faster, pussycat! Kill! Kill!
Fisher! (Commercial)
Football practice! (Shocker)

Go to bed, old man!
Good night and may God bless! (Red Skelton)
Groovy! (Evil Dead 2 & 3)
Gymkata!

He is one weird mamma jamma.
Hello, Cleveland!  Rock and roll! (Spinal Tap)
Hello, Shoil! (Laverne & Shirley)
Hi-Keeba! (Women of the Prehistoric Planet)
Honey West!
Hooker's a good cop! (TJ Hooker)
How about a little fire, Scarecrow? (Wizard of Oz)
How fortunate!  This will simplify everything! (The Phantom Creeps,
Episode 2, a la Bela Lugosi)
How would you like it if we picked YOUR apples? (Wizard of Oz)
Howard Johnson is right!  (Blazing Saddles)
Hurts, don't it?  Tell your friends. (Road House)
Huzzah! (Ren Fest, or other renaissance festival)

I *WILL* kill him! (Dune)
I am Kirrok! (Star Trek, TOS)
I am not an animal!  I am a human being! (The Elephant Man)
I can't come back, folks!  I don't know how it works!  Goodbye! (Wizard of Oz)
I could go for a char-broiled hamburger sandwich and some french-fried
potatoes. (Jungle Goddess)
I got nowhere else to go! (An Officer and a Gentleman)
I had Jello today.
I like you--that's why I'm going to kill you last. (Commando)
I smell a rat -- a big Commie rat. (Dr. Strangelove)
I want Rockford dead! (The Rockford Files)
I wet `em. (Monty Python)
I'd hate to shoot a butt like that.
I'll harm you! (Joe Besser)
I'm Batman (Batman)
I'm a Grimwold Warrior! (The Viking Women and the
Sea Serpent)
I'm comin' Beanie Boy! (Beanie and Cecil)
I'm dead now.  Please don't smoke. (Yul Brynner, a la commercial)
I'm going to give you such a pinch! (Joe Besser)
I'm huge!
I'm hysterical, and I'm wet, and I'm in pain! (The Producers)
I'm made of liquid metal. (T2, a la Ahnold)
I'm not dead yet! (Monty Python and the Holy Grail)
I'm the god!  I'M THE GOD! (Twilite Zone, "The Little People")
Interesting--but STUPID! (Laugh-in)
Is it safe? (Marathon Man)
It is balloon! (F Troop)
It puts the lotion on its skin. (Silence of the Lambs)
It stinks! [w/ OK hand gesture] (Pod People)
It's... (Monty Python)
It's a mad house!  A mad house! (Planet of the Apes)
It's fun.
It's hot and it hurts and stuff. (Bactine commercial)
It's my way or the highway. (Road House)

Jane, stop this crazy thing!  (Jetsons)
Join us! (The Evil Dead)
Just shakin' the bushes, boss.  (Cool Hand Luke)

Knew your father I did. (Mr. B Natural)
Krakatoa, east of Java. Bentonville, east of Muncie.

Life is simple here in Grovers Corners.  (Our Town)
Live, dammit, live!  You've never given up on anything in your life,
now LIVE!" (The
Abyss)
Look into your heart! (Miller's Crossing)

Mazola corn goodnness... (Mazola commercial)
McCloud!!! (McCloud)
Mendoza! (The Simpson)
Mm-HMMMMmmmm, that's good weed! (Carson, a la Art Fern)
My mother was a saint! (Public Enemy Number One)
My name is Inigo Montoya.  You killed my father.  Prepare to die. (The Princess Bride)

N Y P D (NYPD)
No, mommy, not the clown suit!

Oh, for fun!
Oh, suddenly *I'm* the jerk!
Oh, the humanity...  (Hindenburg disaster newsreel)
Oh, the pain, the pain... (Lost In Space)
Ohhhh, lady! (Jerry Lewis)
Oops, sorry! That was me...
Ouch!  I fell on my keys. (The Producers)
Oui, I sure did that thing.  (Monty
Python's Flying Circus)

Peppridge Fa-ahm remembahs. (commercial)
Poopie!
Pull my finger!
Puma?  Puma! (Ring of Terror)

Rosebud...  (Citizen Kane)

Saaaaaaay!
Saigon.  I can't believe I'm still in Saigon. (Apocalypse Now)
Same Bat-time, same Bat-channel. (Batman TV Series)
Sanctuary!  (The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1939))
Serpentine!  Dodge the bullets! (The In-Laws)
Skipper!  Little buddy! (Gilligan's Island)
SLEEP!
Smuckers jellies and jams...
Some THING is wrong on Saturn 3.
Soylent Green is made from *people*!
Spock!  Spock! (Star Trek, TOS)
Stately Wayne Manor... (Batman)
Stay off the moors. (An American Werewolf in London)
Stella!!!  (A Streetcar Named Desire)
Switch.  Jimmy Smits

Thank you, I'll be here all week.  Enjoy the buffet!
That's what I'm asking. I don't know! THIRD BASE! (Abbott and Costello)
The horror!  The horror! (Apocolypse Now)
This is CNN.
This is gonna be my new Saturday night thing.  (Road House)
This square bugs me!  He really bugs me! (Wild Rebels)
This was no boating accident. (Jaws)
Throw me the whip!  Throw me the idol! (Raiders of the Lost Ark)
Thunderbirds are GO!
Tonight on Rescue 911 (Rescue 911)
Tonight, on a very special Trapper John, MD
Trumpy, NO!  (Pod People)
Turn it off!  Turn it off! (Hardcore)

Warriors, come out and play! (The Warriors)
Watch out for snakes! (Eegah)
We're gonna get a bigger boat, right? (Jaws)
We're having an adventure--just like the Goonies!
Welcome to Death
Valley Days.  The driver is either missing or he's	dead. (a la Ronald Reagan)
What about Scarecrow's brain? (The Wizard of Oz)
What would McGyver do?
What's that, boy?  Daddy's hurt?  Down in deadrock canyon?  (Lassie)
When you're a jet, you're a jet all the way, man! (West Side
Story)
Who's the new girl?
Whose woods these are, I think I know... (Robert Frost, "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening")
Works every time. (Billy Dee Williams, Colt '45 Malt Liquor commercial)

Xanadu, stately home of Charles Foster Kane.  Cost, no one can say.	(Citizen Kane)

You... are going... to die!  Because I... am going... to KILL you!
You have *got* to be kidding me!
You *will* bow down before me! (Superman)
You did it!  You finally did it! (Planet of the Apes)
You die Joe!
You go; I'm bitter. (The Seven Samurai?)
You must Sink the Bismarck!
You're gonna make it after all... (The Mary Tyler Moore Show)
You're ruining it for me.
You've broken ape law. (Planet of the Apes)


I just wanted to take this time to thank the following contributors:

pravn@mvp.rain.com (Petrea Mitchell)
westerfi@cogsci.UCSD.EDU (Marissa Westerfield)
"Hall, Richard A SSgt" 
DDTQ48A@prodigy.com (MR STEPHEN K BLATT)
"Ben Robertson" 
Matthew Soffen 
The Great AtA 
"Tracy W. Bush" 
LRAM8@aol.com
Beebe <3VQ7VOSNIAKK@VMS.CSD.MU.EDU>
Applefrien@aol.com
YRTP70B@prodigy.com (MR LANCE W KETT)
pcone@a.crl.com
SlaqJak@aol.com
Tim Skelly 
Charles Hildebrandt 
Matthew and Linda Soffen 
"R. Taylor" 
"javier c. rivera" 
Kathy Sanderson 


