MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 15:55:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2765
Last-Modified: Monday, 11-Dec-95 16:47:09 GMT

The FORTE Knowledge Refinement System 
FORTE  


FORTE (First Order Revision of Theories from Examples) is a machine
learning system for modifiying a first-order Horn-clause domain theory
to fit a set of training examples.  FORTE uses a hill-climbing
approach to revise theories.  It identifies possible errors in an
input theory and calls on a library of operators to develop possible
revisions.  These operators are constructed from methods such as
propositional theory refinement, first-order induction, and inversion
resolution. 

The FORTE system is available via  anonymous ftp.
This system contains the following items: 

Quintus Prolog source code for Forte.
Various domain files.
Sample data sets, including "family", "king-rook-king", and "insert-after".



Pointers to papers on FORTE can be found on our ILP and Theory
Revision publication pages.  Below is the standard reference (click
on the open book image). 


  Refinement of First-Order Horn-Clause Domain Theories  

Bradley L. Richards and Raymond J. Mooney 
 Machine Learning 19,2 (1995), pp. 95-131. 
 Knowledge acquisition is a difficult and time-consuming
task, and as error-prone as any human activity.  The task of
automatically improving an existing knowledge base using learning
methods is addressed by a new class of systems performing  theory
refinement.  Until recently, such systems were limited to
propositional theories.  This paper presents a system, FORTE
(First-Order Revision of Theories from Examples), for refining
first-order Horn-clause theories.  Moving to a first-order
representation opens many new problem areas, such as logic program
debugging and qualitative modelling, that are beyond the reach of
propositional systems.  FORTE uses a hill-climbing approach to revise
theories.  It identifies possible errors in the theory and calls on a
library of operators to develop possible revisions.  The best revision
is implemented, and the process repeats until no further revisions are
possible.  Operators are drawn from a variety of sources, including
propositional theory refinement, first-order induction, and inverse
resolution.  FORTE has been tested in several domains including
logic programming and qualitative modelling.  



estlin@cs.utexas.edu
