Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 20:12:39 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1+
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5126
Last-modified: Fri, 01 Nov 1996 19:34:34 GMT



Flux Project Home Page


The Flux Operating System Project

 The Fluke Nested Process Architecture



The Flux Project's objectives are
(i) to provide infrastructure (the "flux") for highly efficient
component-based systems, with flexible degrees of inter-component
trust, initially oriented to hardware-enforced protection;
(ii) to provide transparent and flexible control of all the
resources used by arbitrary subsystems; and
(iii) to distribute free and usable versions of the developed software.


We have recently developed an entirely new kernel and OS
structure on which future work will be based.  A new paper,

"Microkernels Meet Recursive Virtual Machines"
describes how this system
efficiently supports recursive virtual machines.  That paper
as well as a paper on
"CPU Inheritance Scheduling"
appeared at
OSDI '96.
The draft API for Fluke, the new kernel, is available in
html format,
1-up postscript and
2-up postscript.
Beware: it's currently 110 pages long (but mostly white space).
A design and rationale document will be forthcoming later this year.


One of the design features which should provide large performance gains
is safely storing portions of normal kernel objects in user space, as
outlined in these  slides from a
work-in-progress talk at December '95 SOSP.  This avoids kernel
entry/exit in many common cases.


Artist's renditions of
the Fluke Nested Process Architecture
and of the Fluke OS providing
encapsulated environments for untrusted applications.


Project Members
Papers

Core OS-related papers
Module management-related papers
DSM-related papers


Available Software

 Flux OS Toolkit:
	a toolkit to provide infrastructure for constructing
	operating systems.

  Mach kernel:
	a major component of the
	overall project is an improved kernel.
	Kernel development has moved to Fluke;
		major work on the Mach kernel has stopped.
  Lites Unix server:
	we distribute a version of the Lites server.

  PA Mach/Lites/4.4-lite system:
	a snapshot of freely distributable PA-RISC source and
	binaries, in the form of a bootable, self-hosting Mach4,
	Lites, and 4.4-lite system for the hp700.

  Quarks:
	an Alpha release of
	a portable and reasonably efficient distributed shared memory system.

  MOSS:
	a highly functional DOS extender based on part of the
	Flux OS toolkit, before it was completely modularized.

  Goofie:
	developed by the Mach Shared Objects project,
	goofie creates portable object descriptions from C++
	class declarations.  In the future, Goofie may be used by the Flux
	project to enable system-provided polymorphic functions.

 
	PA-RISC GNU tools:
	we used to maintain the GNU language tools for HP's PA-RISC
	architecture, and still provide recent versions, in both source and
	HP-UX binary forms.


Related Utah Projects
Computing Resources
Support

The group's research in operating systems and related language work is
sponsored by grants from ARPA, NSF, Hewlett-Packard, and IBM.
The Center for
Software Science is a Utah State Center for Excellence.

Job Openings

 Research staff.
 Student fellowships and research assistantships.

Directions and Hotel Information

Directions from the Salt Lake Airport to
the Computer Science Department at the University, and 

information 
on Salt Lake Hotels.


University of Utah Department of Computer Science home page

lepreau@cs.utah.edu
Last modified on Fri Nov  1 1996


