Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 00:06:55 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 15-Jun-95 00:36:02 GMT
Content-length: 3855
Content-type: text/html



CONCURRENT VLSI ARCHITECTURE GROUP










 William J. Dally,Associate Professor of Computer Science and Engineering






Much of the work of the Concurrent VLSI Architecture group
is experimental in nature: We build working chips,
machines, and programs to test new concepts and gain
insight in applying VLSI technology to information
processing. As illustrated by the following examples, our
projects address parallel computer architecture and
software, interconnection networks, special-purpose
processor design, and VLSI design.

The M-Machine is a multicomputer that will test new
concepts for controlling multiple function units on a
single chip, efficient and flexible communication
primitives, fine-grain protection, and global memory
systems. The project seeks out methods for exploiting
instruction-level parallelism within a task and among
tasks, on the same node and between multiple nodes.

The M-Machine consists of up to 64K nodes connected by a
high-speed 3-D mesh network. Each node includes a multi-ALU
processor (MAP) chip and external memory. A MAP chip
contains 12 arithmetic units, memory management hardware,
and a network interface. The chip's target performance is
800 megaFLOPS.

Atomic SEND instructions provide efficient communication by
transmitting a message out of registers. Messages are
removed from the network and dispatched by programmable
software handlers. The memory-system architecture provides
a global virtual address space in which addresses may be
translated into local or remote physical locations. 
Synchronization is provided via tags on memory words.  The
address spaces of individual threads are separated and
protected using segments and privileged access pointers.

Our software research seeks to advance the state of the art
in transforming a sequential application to an efficient
parallel version. Such transformations (which are now very
labor-intensive) should be smooth and painless. Our
compiler will employ both user directives and automatic
analyses to provide users with precisely the control that
is needed at each stage of the transformation. This
combination will allow users to focus first on algorithmic
concerns, leaving optimization to the compiler. Users may
then specify directives to improve performance for the few
critical aspects of the program, possibly using information
not available to the compiler.

The Reliable Router 
is a high-speed, fault-tolerant 2-D
mesh router VLSI chip for use in massively parallel
processors; we plan to use the router in parallel computers
and in network switching hubs. Features include network
fault tolerance via a link-level retry, plesiochronous
timing to avoid the need for a global clock, adaptive
routing for fault and congestion avoidance, virtual
channels for performance under heavy load, support for
request/reply protocols, and random/deadline arbitration
schemes for livelock avoidance. Electrical interconnect
between routers uses simultaneous bidirectional signaling.
Bandwidth per port is 400Mb/sec at a chip clock rate of
100MHz.







