Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:25:27 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 19 Jan 1996 16:40:33 GMT
Content-length: 4078

Impulse-based Dynamic Simulation





Impulse-based simulation is a new paradigm for the simulation of physical
systems, especially those which are hard to simulate efficiently 
with traditional constraint-based methods.  
The key idea is that all contact interactions
between objects are affected through collisions; even a block apparently
at rest on a table actually experiences many tiny, rapid collisions with
the surface.


The basic theory has been put into practice with Impulse, a
rigid body dynamic simulator running on HP and SGI platforms.  
Impulse was written in C by
Brian Mirtich.  Physical accuracy
and computational efficiency have been and continue to be important
design criteria for this evolving system.  Physically accurate, real time
3D simulation of reasonably complex systems is the goal.



Ongoing Research with Impulse 


Francesca Barrientos:
Metaphors for manual (haptic interface) interaction with virtual
environments and animated agents

Dina Berkowitz:
Simulation scripting languages and simulation-based design of parts feeders 

John Canny:
Advising

Brian Mirtich:
Combining impulse- and constraint-based techniques for interactive 
simulation 

Eric Paulos, 
Dinesh Manocha:
Parallelization of impulse-based algorithms 

Check out Eric's work on 

parallelizing Impulse, including an in-depth 
tour
through its operational steps.

Aaron Wallack:
Simulation-based verification of fixturing algorithms 



Related Research
 

Papers


Brian Mirtich,
 ``Hybrid Simulation:  Combining Constraints and Impulses,'' 
in  Proceedings of First Workshop on Simulation and Interaction
in Virtual Environments,  
July 1995.
  [238K postscript]  
  [50K gzipped postscript]  


Brian Mirtich and John Canny,
 ``Impulse-based Simulation of Rigid Bodies,'' 
in  Proceedings of 1995 Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics, 
April 1995.
  [3.46M postscript]  
  [184K gzipped postscript]  


Brian Mirtich and John Canny,
 ``Impulse-based Dynamic Simulation,''  
in  Proceedings of Workshop on Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics, 
February 1994.
  [2.54M postscript]  
  [166K gzipped postscript]  





Simulation Movies


 Simulation Art Gallery 

Special thanks to Master Motion Blurer, 
 Paul Debevec .



Bowling pins

Coins

Block Letters




Brian Mirtich /
mirtich@cs.berkeley.edu /
25 July 1995

