Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:39:02 GMT
Server: Apache-SSL/0.4.3b
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4185
Last-modified: Fri, 11 Oct 1996 19:47:39 GMT

Real-Time A.I.

Real-Time A.I.

Parallel Understanding Systems Group,
Computer Science Dept., University of Maryland at College Park
Intelligent Real-Time Control:

As Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques become mature, there has
been growing interest in applying these techniques to controlling
complex real-world systems which involve hard deadlines.  
Unfortunately, many AI techniques are
characterized by unpredictable or high-variance performance, making
them unsuited to the performance guarantees required for real-time
control systems.  Most research on RTAI focuses on restricting AI
techniques to make them more predictable.

Our research to date has focused on a new approach, the Cooperative
Intelligent Real-time Control Architecture (CIRCA).  In this
architecture, an AI subsystem reasons about task-level problems that
require its powerful but unpredictable reasoning methods, while a
cooperating, parallel real-time subsystem uses its predictable performance
characteristics to deal with control-level problems that require
guaranteed response times.  We are investigating several aspects of
this architecture, including planning for real-time control tasks,
interfacing real-time and non-real-time subsystems, explicitly making
performance tradeoffs when resources are overconstrained, and utilizing
resources that become available dynamically.

Some of this work is being done in conjunction with the Real-Time
Intelligent Control project in the 
Autonomous Mobile Robotics Lab.


Reasoning about Real-Time Competencies:

In domains where the failure is to take appropriate and timely action is
potentially catastrophic, behavioral adequacy for a control system
cannot be established by testing alone. In addition
to the requirement of logical correctness, which is desirable for any
program, such mission-critical systems typically have strict temporal
constraints as well. Hard real-time systems have been developed to 
address these requirements, but achieving intelligent 
behavior in this context has proven probelmatic.
The requirement for hard real-time response is
clearly incompatible with the fundamentally time-bound, high-variance techniques
of classical AI, and the inability to precisely characterize the performance 
and resource requirements of current reactive systems makes them 
equally unsuitable for 
use in hard real-time systems. 

We propose to develop a system for 
representing the semantics of low-level competences and for reasoning
about their use in isolation and in combination. Such a representation
will allow principled proofs of the correctness of reaction-based systems,
as well as provide a formal basis for automated reasoning about the
use of reactive competences. This will support the use of engineered
reactive systems with guaranteed logical performance features
in a hard real-time context, while at the same time 
providing a link to classical AI methodologies. In short, this formal semantics
for reaction will bridge the gap between mission-critical domains and
deliberative AI techniques.


Status/Availability:
Recent Papers:
 
D. Musliner et al., CIRCA:  A Cooperative Intelligent Real-Time Control Architecture
IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Vol. 23 #6, 1993.


R. C. Kohout, J. A. Hendler, D. J. Musliner, and A. K. Agrawala,
 
Supporting Intelligent Real-Time Control: 
Dynamic Reaction on the Maruti Operating System,
submitted to  Real-Time Systems Symposium , 1994.

 
R. Kohout,
Representing Reactive Competences for Hard Real-Time Systems (Ph.D. Dissertation
Proposal)

People:

Dr. James Hendler, PI
Dr. David Musliner, Postdoc

Bob Kohout, Graduate Student

