Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 19:48:41 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tuesday, 20-Aug-96 18:21:57 GMT
Content-length: 9314

The Laboratory for Perceptual Robotics



Welcome


The Laboratory for Perceptual Robotics (LPR)
is in the Computer Science Department
here at UMass.  You
can find specific information here about LPR research, 
facilities,
publications, personnel,
demos,
announcements, events, and bibliography
information.
The Laboratory for Perceptual Robotics research areas include
dexterous manipulation (reaching and grasping), mobile robot
navigation, geometric reasoning, assembly planning, and the
application of learning theory to robotics.  Some of the pages below
contain mpeg movies of various robotics lab demos.  These are marked with
this icon: 

If you want to skip the technical details, visit our Video Page (bring your own popcorn).
You can also take a free-form tour of the lab, or
you can start with the local map of the lab.
In addition, we maintain an internet resources page for robotics.

What's New in the LPR pages.

We also have a Web Chart linking other
Web pages here at UMass, and we have a copyright. 


Faculty




Prof. Rod Grupen, Co-director




Prof. Robin Popplestone, Co-director



Other Laboratory Personnel


Purpose
The Laboratory for Perceptual Robotics (LPR), under the direction
of Professors Rod Grupen and Robin Popplestone, and the Center for
Automated, Real-Time Systems (CARTS) at the University of
Massachusetts is focused on new technologies to control robots in
uncertain and unstructured environments. These efforts include
techniques for acquiring
geometric information on-line, sensor-based systems for 
 robot
manipulator control  and mobile platform navigation, methods for reacting to
sensor information during assembly operations, geometric reasoning for
automated assembly
planning,
and adaptive controllers which acquire
skill in assembly tasks.


Facilities

The Laboratory for Perceptual Robotics is equipped with two General
Electric P50 robots, two GE A4s, a Zebra
Zero, and a customized MRI 
mobile platform.  In addition, the P50s are fitted with a 4-fingered
Utah/MIT and a 3-fingered
Salisbury dexterous hand, respectively.  The lab includes
VxWorks/VME-based distributed controllers and an experimental
real-time kernel (Spring kernel).


   P50 robot equipped  
with the Utah/MIT hand (click to enlarge).  This robot is used for coarse reaching and grasping research (see those pages for mpeg
movies). 


 MRI mobile platform.


   Zebra Zero robot with force sensor.  This robot is used for contact assembly planning and learning.


Thing is a four legged twelve degree of freedom walking robot.


Our stereohead has four mechanical degrees of freedom
and each lens has three optical degrees of freedom.  We are
investigating the use of the head to acquire course object models and
to assist in assembly tasks.



Research

Research conducted at the lab includes:

	controller composition for coordinating multiple robots
 grasp planning
	geometric reasoning for robust assembly & fine motion control
 learning admittance control and path optimization
 biological models of motor planning
	proprioceptive, tactile, & visual model acquisition
 motion planning, coarse reaching
	state-space decomposition
 flexible manufacturing 
	(research done in the context of 
	CARTS)
 visual servoing for assembly
 control of a stereo head


The laboratory also engages in collaborative research with the
Computer Vision (A. Hanson, E. Riseman, directors) and Adaptive
Networks (A. Barto, director) groups within the department.  The lab
also interacts with the Spring Kernel group (J. Stankovic and
K. Ramamritham, directors) applying Spring Kernel concepts to
real-time control for Robotics.







More Information
Related Web Pages

Would you care to sign our Guest Book?
Thanks for your comments.


Queries about this server and its pages may be directed to the local
webmaster at:


webmaster@piglet.cs.umass.edu

Last Update: October 19, 1995
