Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:25:33 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tue, 17 Sep 1996 13:47:47 GMT
Content-length: 5698


 GATOR 
GATOR
 This work is part of an 
HPCC  project funded by 
 NASA   to develop a
state-of-the-art Earth System Model (ESM) that will be comprised of a coupled
atmosphere and ocean system including chemical tracers
that are found in, and may be exchanged between, the atmosphere
and the oceans.  The starting point of the ESM model is the
 UCLA AGCM, 
which has been parallelized on different platforms and
will be coupled with GATOR, a Gas, Aerosol, Transport, and
Radiation Chemistry model, developed by M. Jacobson, O. Toon, R. Turco, 
and R. Lu.  The UCLA ESM model will archive and retrieve 
model output via the
 Sequoia  database.  

Coupled systems are an important tool for helping scientists
to understand complex phenomena
such as El Nino and stratospheric ozone depletion.  



A parallel version of GATOR is being developed at Berkeley by
 Jim Demmel
and  Sharon Smith .
GATOR models
atmospheric chemistry in the Los Angeles Basin, and has been used for
detailed air pollution studies.  Our task is to parallelize GATOR and
scale it to the globe.


GATOR includes
both gases and aerosols, modeling

gas-phase chemistry; 
aqueous-phase chemistry; 
radiation transfer;
aerosol nucleation, coagulation, growth and evaporation; 
horizontal advection and vertical convection;
dry and wet deposition; 
visibility and emissions. 

 The Parallel Version of GATOR 

A primary motivation for this research is to provide 
atmospheric scientists
with  the best computational means to further their studies of the
earth's future climate.  Since the UCLA ESM is still evolving,
it is important that the codes also be portable, so our efforts  
are thus focused on developing portable, parallel code that
can be performance tuned for different parallel architectures.


The main challenges in parallelizing GATOR are
overcoming problems due to load imbalance and minimizing 
the communication costs.   The figure below shows
the differences in computation that can result in load
imbalance:


  


In the picture,
the z-axis shows time, while the x and y axis show the
latitudinal and longitudinal partitioning of the atmosphere into
block columns.  
Each processor owns one set of block columns.  The
difference in time among the processors illustrates the amount
of computation due to solving ODEs that arise from chemical
kinetic equations.  The largest amount of computation occurs in
parts of the globe that are in the summer and daylight, 
whereas the processors holding atmospheric cells in winter and night     
require the least amount of computation.  Click 
here to see the ODE solver computation costs for the world.


Our solution to the load balancing problem is to use a block-cyclic
layout which will collect different atmospheric cells from the 
different parts of the globe together in a single processor.  The
hope is that each processor will have cells requiring 
different amounts of computation, but not all of the computationally
intensive cells at once.   The pictures below illustrate a block
layout, which does not prevent against load imbalance, and a 
block-cyclic layout.

  

Performance Modeling and the ESM

Throughout the design of the parallel implementation of GATOR,
we used a timing model to help choose between different
design alternatives that would benefit GATOR both as a stand-alone
system and as part of the UCLA AGCM.
The results of this work are reported in: 




J. Demmel and S. L. Smith.

Parallelizing a global atmospheric chemical tracer model.
In  Proceedings of the Scalable High Performance Computing
Conf., pages 718--725, Knoxville, TN., May 1994.



J. Demmel and S. L. Smith.
 
Performance of a parallel global atmospheric chemical tracer model.
Submitted to  Supercomputing 95 .


EOSDIS

We are extending our modeling effort to help explore an architecture
for the  Earth Observing System (EOS). This  
effort is part of 
"End-to-End Problems in EOSDIS", a NASA-sponsored multi-year project
to investigate alternative data management strategies for the EOS. 
The project involves researchers at 
the 
Berkeley, 
Los Angeles,
San Diego, and 
Santa Barbara
campuses of the University of California. 


For some sample views of environmental and climate data,
courtesy of 
Jeff Dozier at UC Santa Barbara, click
 here.


last updated on December 12, 1995.
ssmith@CS.Berkeley.EDU
