Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 00:06:13 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 15-Jun-95 00:40:49 GMT
Content-length: 18834
Content-type: text/html



THEORY OF COMPUTATION GROUP






As one of the world's largest groups of theoretical computer
researchers, the Laboratory for Computer Science (LCS)
pursues nearly every major area of computer technology. Our
interests range from basic mathematical theory -- such as
computational geometry, complexity theory, and
number-theoretic algorithms -- to theoretical work on the
foundations of electronic circuitry, communications,
biology, cryptography, and computer architectures.

An important goal of theoretical computer science is to
create formal models of computation, then explore what is
possible within those models. The results not only deepen
our understanding of the basics of computer science, but
also alter its practice through more efficient algorithms,
novel architectures, and a better understanding of a
program's "meaning." While many of these models reflect
recent technological advances -- parallel or distributed
computing, for example -- work also is performed on such
traditional models as finite automata and ordinary
sequential computers.

Parallel Algorithms 
Efficient Algorithms
Scientific Computing
Computational Biology
Machine Learning
Computational Complexity
Cryptographic Protocols
Program Semantics 
Distributed Computing


MIT is the world's leader in parallel algorithms and
architectures. We thus work closely with architects and
systems designers to create the next generation of parallel
supercomputers. Faculty and students interact with such
leading companies as Thinking Machines and IBM to design
and analyze communication networks, parallel computation
models, efficient parallel algorithms for various
applications, and methods for making large-scale parallel
machines more fault-tolerant.

Not surprisingly, we are deeply involved in the design and
use of the forthcoming "information highway." Efficient
network-based communications, in fact, is one of the most
important and exciting challenges facing theory
researchers.









 Tom Leighton,Professor of Applied Mathematics (Parallel Algorithms)
Michel Goemans,Assistant Professor of AppliedMathematics (Efficient Algorithms)




LCS also vigorously researches efficient algorithms for
sequential computers. Surprisingly, perhaps, improved
algorithms for well-known problems continue to be
discovered, and new theoretical problems often arise as
spin-offs from advances in computer technology. Some of our
work focuses on algorithms for graph problems,
computational geometry, number-theoretic problems, and the
laying out and routing of VLSI circuitry. Other recent
projects include on-line algorithms (which do not know all
the data in advance), randomized algorithms (which use
random numbers to aid decision-making), and approximation
algorithms (which are guaranteed to find near-optimum
solutions).

Many fundamental problems that provide insight into the
design and analysis of efficient algorithms lie in the area
of combinatorial optimization. We recently have seen a
surge of exciting developments in approximation algorithms
for difficult optimization problems, and LCS is a leader in
obtaining novel and general techniques for designing such
algorithms. We have developed improved approximation
algorithms for a variety of problems, including those
related to multicommodity flow and network design, as well
as more specific problems such as the graph bisection
problem or the maximum cut problem.









Alan Edelman,Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics (Scientific Computing)
 David R. Karger,Assistant Professor ofComputer Science and Engineering (Algorithms)




Largely as a result of rapid advances in parallel computing
technology,scientific computing has become one of
computer science's most active areas. This
interdisciplinary area bridges numerical analysis, linear
algebra, computer architecture, program analysis and
optimization, software engineering, scientific
visualization, and various scientific applications.

Problems in scientific computing often strain the resources
of modern parallel machines, compelling us to advance new
tools and ideas. LCS researchers have pioneered the
adaptation of algorithms for the special needs of these
scientific applications.

Scientific computing involves various research topics in
theoretical computer science, such as finite element and
finite difference mesh generation, sparse and dense matrix
computations, and the solution of large-scale linear
systems.  Some of these problems can be translated into or
approximated by combinatorial and geometric problems,
including network optimization, communication network
topology emulation, graph embedding, parallel machine
scheduling, dynamic load balancing, geometric modeling, and
triangulations.

A fundamental issue in parallel scientific computing is
mesh partitioning, in which a large mesh is divided into a
given number of pieces of roughly equal weights so that the
"boundary" is "small." Efficient partitioning is vital to
balance the load and reduce communication in parallel
solutions of sparse linear systems. It is also useful in
parallel emulation of computational meshes on hypercube and
butterfly architectures and out-of-core algorithms for
iterative relaxation.

Computational biology represents another new and
exciting research area. Accordingly, one of our goals is to
expand the computational "toolkit" that is available for
numerous biological problems.

Computer science, for example, helps make sense of the vast
amount of information now being compiled for the Human
Genome project, such as DNA and amino-acid sequence data.
One intra-MITeffort has drawn on the resources of LCS, the
Whitehead Institute, and the Biology and Mathematics
departments; specific research areas include computational
approaches to protein folding, physical and genetic
mapping, virus shell assembly, AIDS theories, and sequence
homology and alignment.


Yet another illustration of computational biology relates
to the so-called "grand challenge" associated with protein
folding -- that is, the determination of how a protein will
fold three-dimensionally when only its amino-acid sequence
is known. An important first step in answering this
question is a solution to the motif recognition problem:
Given a known 3D structure (or motif), researchers must
determine whether the fold occurs in an unknown sequence of
amino acids and, if so, in which positions. Techniques from
theoretical computer science have been particularly
effective in solving such problems.










 Ronald L. Rivest,Edwin Sibley WebsterProfessor of Computer Science and Engineering Associate Director, LCS (Machine Learning)
 Bonnie A. Berger,Assistant Professor of Mathematics (Computational Biology)




On another front, researchers in machine learning study
computers' ability to "learn" from experience. The results
of our research have stimulated various formalizations that
address a range of issues in psychology, artificial
intelligence, pattern recognition, and neurobiology. Some
recent research themes include the inference of finite
automata; learning in the presence of noise; learning an
unknown environment "piecemeal" by exploration; learning of
"manifest" systems (in which relevant variables are often,
but not always, visible to the learner), and models of
"teaching."

In general, the group's research is "positive" in nature,
in that we strive to develop provably efficient learning
algorithms with potentially practical application. In some
cases, however, the research leads to equally useful
"negative" results by identifying the limits of what is
ultimately learnable.

Another major theme is the development of new models of
learning that provide better theoretical formulations of
real-world learning situations and the appropriate
algorithms. One example is to learn a concept defined by
Boolean formulae from examples of that concept. Another is
to infer the structure of a finite-state system by
examining the system's input/output behavior. Statistical
techniques are needed to determine how much data are needed
for a given problem; complexity theory helps assess the
difficulty of computing the desired answer from the data.

Machine-learning research is generally theoretical in
nature (although some is experimental), and involves the
careful specification of models of learning and the precise
specification and analysis of learning algorithms. We use a
wide range of models to capture different aspects of
technical and philosophical relevance, such as learning
from noisy data; learning hierarchically structured
concepts; learning with neural nets; learning via different
output representations; learning to represent a system
containing hidden state variables, and trading off
simplicity of hypothesis with quality of fit to the data.










 Shafrira Goldwasser,Professor of Electrical Engineering and  Computer Science(Cryptographic Protocols)
 Silvio Micali,Professor of Electrical Engineering  and  Computer Science(Cryptographic Protocols)




Cryptography is another important area of research
within LCS. In its simplest and most ancient form,
cryptography relates to secret communication. Cast in the
framework of complexity theory, the sender, the recipient,
and the adversary are computationally bounded machines. An
encryption system is deemed "secure" when it is
computationally unfeasible for an adversary to obtain
information from their encodings. Since proving non-trivial
lower bounds on the complexity of NP-complete problems is
not within the current state of the art, proof of security
must show that any method for compromising security can be
transformed into an efficient algorithm for a problem (such
as factoring integers) which is generally believed to be
intractable.

Achieving privacy is only one area of cryptography
research. Another is the design of protocols for
authentication, certified electronic mail, and contract
signing between two or more mutually suspicious parties. In
general, the goal is to perform an arbitrary distributed
computation among many processors, each containing some
portion of the input. Each processor is connected in a
network such that no processor reveals any information
other than that which is intended.

Protocol research has led to a complexity theory of the
amount of knowledge that must be released in order for one
processor to prove a fact to another processor -- the
theory of "zero-knowledge proofs." Generating pseudo-random
numbers and functions is another important field.
(Randomness is here defined with respect to a specific
model of computation and a specific level of computational
resources.)

LCS researchers have contributed to virtually all
cryptographic inventions of the past decade, including the
invention of the first public-key cryptosystem,
probabilistic cryptosystems, and the invention of
zero-knowledge proofs.










 Michael Sipser,Professor of Applied Mathematics(Computational Complexity Theory)
 Mauricio Karchmer,Assistant Professor of Mathematics(Computational Complexity Theory)




LCS also enjoys a traditional leadership role in
computation complexity theory. One of the prime goals
in this field is to devise and study natural schemes for
classifying problems according to their computational
difficulty, then place familiar and important problems
within the appropriate scheme.

One familiar example is the problem of factoring large
integers -- that is, finding all the prime numbers that
divide the integer evenly. The exercise is not only
theoretically interesting, but also is relevant to
cryptography. The "brute force" method of searching for
prime factors one by one is too slow to be useful. While
better algorithms are known, determining the intrinsic
difficulty of the factoring problem is one of complexity
theory's many exciting questions.

LCS researchers were the first to show that there are
problems of high intrinsic complexity. Now we are
investigating the complexity of problems akin to factoring
by studying the power of weak computational models, such as
branching programs and monotone circuits of bounded depth.
These formally constrained models are easier to analyze and
thus may help us better understand the standard models. In
closely related work, we are studying the power of
probabilistic computation, parallelism, randomness and
pseudo-randomness, interactive proof systems, and other
basic computing concepts.









 Albert R. Meyer,Hitachi America Professor of Engineering(Program Semantics and Logic)
 Peter Elias,Professor  Emeritusand Senior Lecturer(Information Theory)




Elsewhere within LCS, researchers into the theory of
programming semantics and logic aim to provide clear
mathematical foundations and reliable reasoning principles
that conform to the robust functional metaphor programmers
use to design, describe, and justify their programs.
Programming routinely unites high abstraction and pragmatic
design and includes the declaration of procedures,
functions, data types, processes, and "objects." The
researchers' objective is to lay a solid foundation for
this task.

Computer scientists' notion of a "function," however, may
depend on when and in what context it is evaluated. That
contrasts with the mathematician's classical notion of a
function. Bridging this conceptual gap involves elements of
algebra, modal and intuitionistic logic, and category-,
complexity-, computability-, proof-, and type theory -- all
applied to programming-language design, compiler
construction, and program optimization. This work is being
extended to the study of specifying the meaning and
verification of the properties of parallel and distributed
processes.









Nancy Lynch,Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science(Distributed Computing)
 Baruch Awerbuch,Research Scientist(Distributed Computing)




Distributed computation theory is designed to clarify
the basic capabilities and limitations of concurrent and
distributed computing systems. Research results include new
algorithms and their analysis, impossibility results,
formal concurrent-systems models, and models and techniques
for proving correctness of concurrent algorithms. Problems
typically include getting the non-failing processors to
agree, synchronizing non-failing processors, fault-tolerant
compiling and routing, resource allocation, sharing access
to data, and graph-theoretic problems such as doing a
breadth-first search or finding minimum-cost spanning
trees.

A basic problem in fault-tolerant computing is to cause
processors to agree among themselves (about the value of a
data item, say, or about a common course of action). While
this is a simple exercise in the absence of faults, it may
be impossible when faults are present: Individual
processors do not have reliable knowledge about the states
of other processors. Our work has led to many interesting
algorithms and impossibility results that demonstrate
conditions under which consensus can or cannot be achieved.

An important LCS project related to network protocols has
been the development of a series of efficient algorithmic
transformers. The result of this project is the
"compilation" of protocols that were designed for a
relatively simple network model into protocols that run in
a more complex, but more realistic, environment.

LCS has developed an important formalism -- the
Input/Output Automaton Model, a basic mathematical model
for concurrent and distributed systems and their
components. This simple-state machine model helps describe
interactions between a concurrent system and its
environment. The model not only verifies the correctness of
algorithms but also helps find and fix serious gaps in some
basic existing algorithms -- the construction of
multi-writer atomic registers, for example.







