Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:47:35 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 26 Sep 1996 12:46:34 GMT
Content-length: 4720

Real-Time Database Systems Lab
Real-Time Databases: MDDS Systems
University of Massachusetts, Amherst

The Real-Time Database Systems Laboratory is part of the
 Computer Science Department at the

University of Massachusetts.  
Our  current research and
 current results focus
on integrating active,
real-time, temporal and multimedia databases 
for crisis management in Massive Digital Data Systems (MDDS).
This work is funded by the Advanced Research and Development Committee
of the Community Management Staff.



Principal Investigators


Prof. Krithi Ramamritham

Prof. John Stankovic

 Prof. Don Towsley

Graduate Students


Raju Sivasankaran

Ming Xiong

Jitendra Padhye



Real-Time Concurrency and Recovery Algorithm Testbed (retired)
 Real-Time Concurrency and Recovery Algorithm Testbed (RTCARAT) was
the first physical testbed for real-time databases.  It contained all
the major functional components of a transaction processing system,
including real-time concurrency control, transaction scheduling,
etc. Experiments were conducted focusing on real-time
transaction processing. Ideas developed here were extended
and formed the basis for RADEx (see below).

Graduated Students


Dr. Jiandong Huang
Bhaskar Purimetla


Publications



Real-Time Active Database Experimental Simulator 
Real-Time Active Database Experimental Simulator (RADEx) is the first real-time,
active, object-oriented, temporal database simulator. It is being used to 
study



  Priority assignment and real-time transaction scheduling in active 
real-time databases

  Real-time logging and recovery

   Consistency and scheduling in temporal databases

  Multimedia databases



Previous Work
 Transaction Processinig in Real-Time Active Databases  
Real-Time Active Database Applications  

Priority Assignment in Real-Time Active Databases



Current Work
 Enhancing the RADEx simulator to include the following
Logging and Recovery

Feasibility Checking

Temporal Data 



Miscellaneous
 Other related papers can be found.

 
Back to the DB Home Page 

Back to the RTS Home Page



If you have any comments on this page or need further information,
please send your mail to 
sivasank@cs.umass.edu or 
xiong@cs.umass.edu 
Last Update: 23 May 1996.
