Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.1
Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 01:00:51 GMT
Last-modified: Friday, 10-Nov-95 21:18:45 GMT
Content-length: 4058
Content-type: text/html



  Computational Science: Atomic Structure Calculations 




 Computational Science: Atomic Structure Calculations 

The wave equation describing the structure of an atom is a partial
differential equation of eigenvalue type.  High performance architectures
and efficient algorithms are needed to solve systems with three or more 
electrons.  The atomic structure project is concerned with the development of
software for the accurate determination of wave functions from
which a number of atomic properties can be predicted.  Of particular 
importance are properties associated with energy transfer mechanisms 
such as transition probabilities.  Over the years, an atomic structure
package has been developed. Currently a parallel version has been
implemented on a network of IBM Risc 6000/370 workstations using a
a sparse matrix eigenvalue solver. 
Much of this work was supported since 1978 by the Division of Chemical Sciences,
Office of Basic Energy Science, Office of Energy Research, U.S.
Department of Energy. An NSF grant No. ASC-9005687 for ``Parallel
Algorithms for the Many-Body Problem'' supported the work on parallel
algorithms.

 Faculty 
 

 Fischer, Charlotte F., B.A., M.A. (British Columbia 1952, 1954),
 Ph.D. (Cambridge 1957). 
 Postdoctoral Fellow 
 
 Jonsson, Per 
 Ph. D. Students 
 
 Xi, Jinhua
 
 
 Mikail Saparov

 Collaborators 
 
 Bieron, Jacek (Visiting Scientist, National Institute of Standards
and Technology, MD) 
 
   Brage, Tomas 
   (National Research Council Fellow, Goddard Space Flight
     Center, MD) 
 
 Godefroid, Michel 
     (Senior Research Associate of the Belgian National Fund for 
     Scientific Research, Brussels) 
 
 Hansen, Jorgen (Van der Waals-Zeeman Laboratorium, Amsterdam) 
 
 Hibbert, Alan (Professor, Queen's University of Belfast) 
 
 Parpia, Farid A. (Research Scientist, POWERparallel systems, IBM) 
 Recent Publications  
 
 MCHF: algorithms, distributed computing 
 
 Large-scale atomic structure calculations 
 Computational Facilities 
The group uses Sun workstations for Unix tasks. Large scale computation
and parallel applications are performed on 5 IBM 
Risc 6000/370 workstations, most with 2Gigabyte disks.
The group also has access to 
VUPAC switch.  Access to an SP2 parallel system is possible
 through a Joint Study Agreement with IBM, Kingston, NY. Through
  funding from the Department of Energy, Cray time is available from NERSC. 
 Software 
The MCHF atomic structure software is available from the Computer Physics
Communication Library at Belfast.  For information send a message with
the one word Help to cpcserver@daresbury.ac.uk .  




 Phone Number:
 (615) 322-2926
 FAX Number:
 (615) 343-5459
 Electronic Mail:
 cff@vuse.vanderbilt.edu



