Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 19:50:40 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Saturday, 28-Sep-96 04:44:51 GMT
Content-length: 4125

The Experimental Knowledge Systems Laboratory
The Experimental Knowledge Systems Laboratory



Welcome to the EKSL Web Server

What's new with the EKSL Web Server? (last update 9/20/96)

The Experimental Knowledge Systems Laboratory is part of the Department of Computer Science at
the University
of Massachusetts. You can find specific information here about
EKSL research, publications, personnel and announcements. We also have a copyright.



Purpose

The Experimental Knowledge Systems Laboratory (EKSL), under the
direction of Professor Paul R. Cohen, seeks to understand the
requirements of autonomous agents operating in complex, real-world
environments, and to develop a science of agent design grounded in
this understanding.



Research

 A Research Overview, 1989-1994
 Introduction: Designing Autonomous Agents 
 Interactive Steering of Complex Systems 
 Monitoring Plan Execution in Dynamic Environments 
 Empirical Methods for Artificial Intelligence
 An Intelligent Scientific Assistant
 Multi-stream Dependency Detection
 Causal Modeling
 Experiment Planning
 AI Approaches to Network Management
 Multiple Event Stream Simulator
 Phoenix: An Adaptable Planner for a Complex, Real-time Environment 
 The CLIP/CLASP Project
 The Air Campaign Simulator (ARPI password required)
 TransSim: Transportation Planning Simulation
 ARPA Sponsored Project Summaries
  
 Plan Steering
 Evaluating Planners




More Information

Announcements
Guest Book
Laboratory Personnel
Publications
EKSL Software/Document FTP Archive
Lisp Resources
Planning Resources
EKSL FAQ (local access only)
RCF FAQ
Server Statistics
...more links...

EKSL WWW Server Miscellania

If have any comments, suggestions or problems using our server please let us know using the 
quick response form which 
will send email to the server administrator. We have a Guest Book that you can
make an entry in or just browse.  We also
have a server traffic summary reports.



EKSL Web Server Administrator 

Last Update: 5/23/96 
 1995 UMass Amherst