Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:30:03 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4889
Last-modified: Wed, 14 Feb 1996 20:33:30 GMT

Mirage Development Team


Mirage Development Team


Mirage+ is a Distributed Shared Memory (DSM) system which provides memory
management and communication across machines in a loosely coupled network
environment.  The system hides network
boundaries to processes accessing shared memory, providing the
illusion of a coarse grained multiprocessor to the programmer and
algorithm designer.  Mirage+ is designed to execute traditional System
V Posix-compliant shared memory programs on commodity personal
computers.  

A key feature in Mirage+ is the simplicity with which powerful networking
can be employed using solutions that have been designed for
uniprocessors and applied to a more powerful network of
workstations platform.  Mirage+ implements DSM using a paged
segmentation scheme where segments are partitioned into pages. The system 
runs on a cluster of IBM PS/2 class machines.

Our lastest work in the DSM area is a non-kernel invasive DSM system
based on the Quarks prototype from Utah.  We are focusing on disconnected 
operation and mobility for Distributed Memory Shared Systems.  The
new research is based on advances and experiences with Mirage+. We have also 
constructed the Riverside Mobile DSM Suite which are a set of
application programs
that exercise functionality in mobile systems that one would expect to
want to implement using DSM.  In addition, our group also authored the  
DSM port of Quarks to the DEC Alpha AXP 150 personal computers and made the
results of the port accessible to other researchers.
 


Mirage Team Members

  Brett D. Fleisch  - 
brett@cs.ucr.edu - Project Director,
 Assistant Professor
Randall Hyde - rhyde@cs.ucr.edu
 - UCR Computer Science Lecturer
 Cheryl DeMatteis - cdematt@cs.ucr.edu  - UCR Computer
Science Graduate Student
William Schroeder - whs@cs.ucr.edu
 - UCR Computer Science Graduate Student
David Choweller - 
davec@cs.ucr.edu - UCR Computer Science Graduate Student
Sachin Shah - sachin@cs.ucr.edu - UCR
Computer Science Graduate Student
Mark Allan Co - 
marcus@cs.ucr.edu - UCR Computer Science Graduate Student
Ra'ad Bahhour - bahhour@cs.ucr.edu
 - UCR Computer Science Graduate Student
Kevin Marcus - 
datadec@cs.ucr.edu - UCR Computer Science Undergraduate Student
Jeremy Powell - jpowell@cs.ucr.edu
 - UCR Computer Science Undergraduate Student
Steve Grubbs - sgrubbs@cs.ucr.edu
 - UCR Computer Science Undergraduate Student
Jarrod Shields - jshields@cs.ucr.edu - UCR
Computer Science Undergraduate Student
Barnett hsu - barnett@cs.ucr.edu - UCR
Computer Science Undergraduate Student
John Mikhail - jmikhail@cs.ucr.edu - UCR
Computer Science Undergraduate Student  

Mirage Associated Team Members

 Oliver Theel  - 
oliver@cs.ucr.edu - Visiting Postdoctoral Researcher
Niels Christian Juul
- ncjuul@cbs.dk - 


Order a Mirage T-shirt!!!
Yes, for a limited time only, you can be one of the fashion trend
setters by sporting the latest in Mirage apparel! The Mirage T-shirt
is made of 100% pure cotton and features the Mirage logo! Help show
support for the Mirage project and buy a T-shirt. T-shirts are
available in large and X-large. The price is $12.00 for one T-shirt or
$20.00 for two T-shirts. 
Hurry! Operators are standing by! Email now! 

To order a Mirage T-shirt email Brett Fleisch at 
brett@cs.ucr.edu

Last Updated October 19, 1995
Return to CS Base Page

Mirage logo by Joe Solinsky - jcsky@cs.ucr.edu
