Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:38:28 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html



Iowa Vision Laboratory

The Vision Laboratory at the University of Iowa
 
This page is new and still under construction, but we hope to
become your number one source for information in computer vision.
Please keep checking back for new material.


 
Computer vision research at the 

University of Iowa 

Computer Science Department
is primarily carried out by 
Margaret Fleck and her students.
Our laboratory, which we share with the simulation group and
occasional course projects, contains
two PUMA robot arms, seven cameras (five color), and all sorts of
interesting equipment for computer vision experimentation.  
The lab is
quite crowded but we can make it seem spacious in this picture using
wide-angle photography:





 The Computer Vision Handbook 



 Computer Science Research Index


Our research projects include

Finding pictures of naked people in
image databases
Wide-angle photography
 Our portable vision system project
 Our lisp/c vision utility package
1996 summer REU project on distribution of colors in image
databases:  
 
Marcus's report
 
Louise's report


Other generally useful pointers:


 HP Omnibook information
 On-line bookstores
and libraries
 The Yahoo WWW Index
NSCA's internet starting points


 Margaret Fleck 
is the main faculty member running the vision group and is
the best person to contact for additional information
about the lab or our research projects.
 Dan Stevenson 
knows almost as much about what we're doing, 
but he's harder to reach by phone because
he's not a faculty member and doesn't have a snazzy private office.
We jointly maintain our software system and these web pages.
The easiest way to reach either of us is by email.



This page is maintained by
 Margaret Fleck. 
and  Dan Stevenson. 
The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the page author.  The contents of this page have not been approved by the Division of Mathematical Sciences, the College of Liberal Arts or The University of Iowa.


Last modified  Wednesday, 28-Aug-96 19:09:45 CDT

