Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 20:12:26 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1+
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 2694
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Dec 1995 21:26:58 GMT



Mach Shared Objects



The Mach Shared Objects Project



Principal Faculty: Gary Lindstrom

Affiliated Faculty: Robert R.  Kessler,
John Carter,
Mark Swanson,
Robert Mecklenburg
Nature of Work

The Mach Shared Objects project is an effort to apply object-oriented
techniques to the problems of operating systems interface and
implementation, language implementations, and storage techniques.
These areas are covered by a variety of software components and
theoretical groundwork which operate in concert to enhance existing
technonogies.


 OMOS -
	 An Object/Meta-Object Server
 OMOS is an active object server which manages executable
	 programs and their components as a set of composable objects.
	 Besides replacing the traditional services of a linker, OMOS
	 is able to provide dynamic object loading, shared libraries,
	 program analysis, and custom application construction.
 The Object Manager

     The object manager provides a centralized service for
	 storing, retrieving, and naming object instances and the
	 meta-objects.  This provides the services commonly attributed
	 to a persistent object data manager.
 A General Object-Oriented
	 Framework for Interface Expression
 GOOFIE is a meta-object generator capable of creating
	 portable object descriptions.  These meta-objects are used to
	 store and retrieve objects, marshal and unmarshal arguments
	 to function calls and provide a ``platform'' for univeral
	 polymorphism in the C++ programming language.

Funding

MSO is funded under the 
Persistent Object Bases
program of the

Software and Intelligent Systems Office
of  ARPA.
Quarterly Report

Here is our latest ONR Project Summary and
Quarterly Report.
Publications

Here is a 
complete list of MSO project publications.

 

Department of Computer Science, University of Utah
gary@cs.utah.edu
Last modified Wed Sep 14 1994


