Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 23:59:01 GMT
Server: Apache/1.2-dev
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 18 Apr 1996 23:19:59 GMT
ETag: "b8f50-d60-3176ce1f"
Content-Length: 3424
Accept-Ranges: bytes

The Scheme Underground

The Scheme Underground

"I am not a Church numeral; I am a free variable!"

 
The Scheme Underground is a new effort starting between LCS
and the AI Lab to develop useful software packages in Scheme
for use by research projects and for distribution on the net.
 
We want to take over the world.  The internet badly needs a
public domain software environment that allows the rapid construction
of software tools using a modern programming language.  Our goal is to
build such a system using Scheme 48, an
ultra-portable Scheme implementation which is easily interfaced to
existing software written in other languages.

MIT Undergrads: want to hack Scheme for the summer?

Are you interested in hacking advanced Scheme systems at MIT?
We are looking for several UROPS to do design and implementation
work on these packages. These packages include Unix shells,
World Wide Web systems, graphics, text editors, and base systems 
tools for a new Scheme implementation developed at MIT, Scheme 48.
 
A major emphasis of this effort will to create a hacker culture that
teaches and encourages elegant coding style.  People working on this
project will be expected to be mature enough to allow
other people to constructively critique their code.  They
should also be mature enought to critique others' code in a
constructive and professional manner.  This project will give you the
opportunity to learn good coding style from highly experienced Scheme
programmers, many of whom helped define the language.

UROP projects
Here is a partial list of projects for which we are willing to take summer 
UROPS. Many of these projects interweave and overlap. Any of them,
if well-executed, would make a real impact both inside MIT and on the 
Internet. 
 

 Scsh, a Scheme-based shell for Unix.

World Wide Web projects
 Graphics projects
 Systems programming projects


We are looking for motivated hackers, with good programming
taste, who like Scheme, are looking for interesting and fun projects,
and are willing to continue into the fall semester.
If any of these projects appeal to you, and you think you fit the
bill, get in touch with us.

Related efforts
Does the Rice PLT project
provide a cover for the Texas cell of The Underground, 
or are the reports of a separate, shadowy conspiracy accurate? 
We could tell you, but then we'd have to kill you.
It is known that the conspiracy needs new blood,
particularly in the 
summer.


 Olin Shivers
     (shivers@ai.mit.edu)

 Ian Horswill
(ian@ai.mit.edu)

 Jonathan Rees
	(jar@altdorf.ai.mit.edu)

Ian Horswill --- ian@ai.mit.edu
