Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 20:04:49 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Friday, 21-Jun-96 21:14:58 GMT
Content-length: 8223



Performance Prediction



Measurement and Prediction of 
Parallel Program Performance
NSF CISE grant CCR-9510173
Faculty


Tom LeBlanc
(leblanc@cs.rochester.edu)



in collaboration with
Mark Crovella
(crovella@cs.bu.edu)


Graduate Students


Wagner Meira
(meira@cs.rochester.edu)



Alex Poulos
(poulos@cs.rochester.edu)



Nikolaos
    Hardavellas (nikolaos@cs.rochester.edu)




Project Summary

Carnival is a tool designed to automate the process
of understanding the performance of parallel programs.
It supports performance measurement, modeling, tuning,
and visualization.


Carnival measurements are based on
predicate profiling,
which quantifies the time spent in each category of overhead during execution.
Our first implementation of predicate profiling
was implemented on the KSR-1.
We now have implementations for
the SGI Challenge multiprocessor,
the IBM SP-2,
a network of SUN workstations running PVM,
and a cluster of Alpha workstations.


Carnival is a novel attempt to automate the cause-and-effect
inference process for performance phenomena.
In particular, Carnival currently supports waiting time analysis,
an automatic inference process that explains each source
of waiting time in terms of the underlying causes,
instead of simply identifying where it occurs.
We are now developing a similar technique to explain
the causes of communication.


Our ultimate goal is to combine the accuracy of empirical performance
measurement with the predictive power of analytic performance modeling.
Towards that end, Carnival supports
lost cycles analysis,
which uses a priori knowledge of the sources and characteristics
of the overhead categories in parallel systems to guide and constrain
the modeling process.
The Lost Cycles Toolkit, which we are integrating within Carnival,
combines empirical model-building techniques from statistics
with measurement and modeling techniques for parallel programs.


Carnival is also a visualization tool
that provides a link between performance measurements
and the source code.
The interface presents the original source code in a window.
Along the left hand side of the source is a grey-scale
scroll bar that indicates the amount of time spent in
each portion of the source code (summed across all processors).
Along the right hand side of the source code are color bars that indicate
the percent of time spent in each overhead category by that section of
source code (again summed across all processors).
Pop-up windows are used during modeling and waiting time analysis.


The Carnival implementation comprises about 15,000
lines of Tcl/Tk and C source code.
It has been installed at the Cornell Theory Center
and we plan to make it more widely available soon.
We are currently porting the instrumentation library
(the only machine-dependent portion of the tool)
to clusters of DEC Alphas connected by the DEC Memory Channel.


Related Publications

 Crovella, M. R. Bianchini,
    T. LeBlanc, E. Markatos, and R. Wisniewski,
    ``Using Communication-to-Computation Ratio in Parallel Program Design
    and Performance Prediction,''
    In Proc. 4th IEEE Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing,
    Dallas, Texas, December 1992, pp. 238-245.
 Crovella, M. and T. LeBlanc.
      Performance Debugging Using
     Parallel Performance Predicates.
     In Proc., 3rd ACM/ONR Workshop
     on Parallel and Distributed Debugging, pp. 140-150, May 1993.
 Crovella, M. and T. J. LeBlanc.
      The Search for Lost Cycles:
     A New Approach to Performance Tuning of Parallel Programs.
     In Proc. Supercomputing '94, Washington, D.C. November 1994, pp. 600-609.
     Also available as
     Technical Report 479, Computer Science Dept., Univ. of Rochester,
     December 1993.
 Crowl, L. A., M. Crovella, T. J. LeBlanc, and M. L. Scott. ``The
     Advantages of Multiple Parallelizations in Combinatorial
     Search.'' J. of Parallel and Distributed Computing, 21, 1, April 1994,
     pp. 110-123.  Also available as
     Technical Report 451,
     Computer Science Dept., Univ. of Rochester, April 1993.
 Crovella, M.
     Performance
     Prediction and Tuning of Parallel Programs.
     Ph.D. Dissertation, TR 573, Computer Science Department,
     University of Rochester, August 1994.
 Mark Crovella, Thomas J. LeBlanc, Wagner Meira, Jr.,
    Parallel
    Performance Prediction Using the Lost Cycles Toolkit.
    TR 580, Computer Science Department, University of Rochester, May 1995.
 Wagner Meira Jr., Modeling
    Performance of Parallel Programs,
    TR 589, Computer Science Department, University of Rochester, June 1995.
 Wagner Meira Jr., Thomas J. LeBlanc, and Alexandros Poulos,
    Performance Visualization and
    Tuning with Carnival, ACM SIGMETRICS Symp. on Parallel and
    Distributed Tools, May 1996, pp. 1-10.


Related Projects

 AIMS
	(NASA Ames)
     Pablo
	(University of Illinois)
     Paradyn
	(University of Wisconsin)
     Poirot
	(University of Oregon)
     TASS
	(Georgia Tech)
     TAU
	(University of Oregon)


Other Information

There is a new symposium on parallel and distributed tools
sponsored by ACM SIGMETRICS.
The symposium has a
home page,
and was held May 1996 as part of the ACM Federated Conference
in Philadelphia, PA.
See the proceedings of that symposium for papers on the latest work
in this area.


The Parallel Tools Consortium was formed to help coordinate tool
development in the parallel processing community.
See their home page
for a list of projects approved by the consortium, as well as a
comprehensive list of research projects on parallel tools.


The Cornell Theory Center maintains a
list
of parallel tools
(including Forge, ParaGraph, ParaScope, and upshot)
and associated documentation.


For an introduction to parallel computing, and a discussion of
related performance issues, see Ian Foster's on-line text
Designing and Building
Parallel Programs.



last modified June 21 1996 / Tom LeBlanc / leblanc@cs.rochester.edu



