Server: CERN/3.0A
Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 00:56:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4257
Last-Modified: Thu, 24 Oct 1996 00:06:42 GMT



Computational Intelligence Research Laboratory









The Computational Intelligence Research Laboratory (CIRL) of the University of Oregon has a research
focus on basic questions in artificial intelligence including search,
knowledge representation, and reasoning.  Emphasis is on planning,
constraint satisfaction, and reasoning about action and physical
devices. Laboratory faculty members participate in some Computer and Information Sciences
Department activities and shared
recreational activities.

The laboratory provides financial support for students and fosters an
intimate relationship among a small group of researchers working in
closely-related areas and the graduate students they supervise. The
Computational Intelligence Research Laboratory is committed to having
no more than twice as many students as faculty members.

Faculty

 David W. Etherington (Director)
 Matthew L. Ginsberg
 David E. Joslin

Graduate Students

 Tania Bedrax-Weiss
 Ari Jónsson
 Bart Massey
 Andrew Parkes

Alumni

 Andrew Baker
 James Crawford
 Will Harvey
 Joe Pemberton


Research

  Comprehensive Overview: 
An introduction to each of the exiting areas of research CIRL members 
are contributing in. 
 Software:  Some software packages 
developed at CIRL are available.  You can view a demo that allows you to 
test a number of satisfiability solvers on problems of your choice, you 
can download the sources or binaries of some of these solvers, or if you 
prefer, you can download MVL, Matt Ginsberg's inference engine. 
 Documents: Some CIRL-related documents 
are available.  You'll find many interesting links, ranging from
research papers by CIRL members to a list of publicly available AI
systems. 
 Constraints Archive:
 This archive is part of the comp.constraints archive and FAQ and is 
currently maintained by David Joslin.  You'll find a wide range of topics 
from current constraint-related job openings to tutorials, publications, 
people, systems, etc.

  If you are looking for something in particular, you may want to
use our search engine.

Contacts

CIRL is located in the Riverfront Research Park in Eugene Oregon USA.

More information on Eugene can be found by clicking here or here.

CIRL
1269 University of Oregon
Eugene OR USA 97403-1269

+1 (541) 346-0470

+1 (541) 346-0474


CIRL faculty can also be contacted if you have questions about
research agendas, etc. 

Additional information about the University of Oregon computer science
department, including application materials for potential graduate
students, can be obtained from Betty Lockwood.



betty@cs.uoregon.edu




Last Modified: 8/27/96


Tania Bedrax-Weiss
tania@cirl.uoregon.edu



