Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 19:33:48 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5467
Last-modified: Tue, 20 Aug 1996 23:17:14 GMT


   Programming Languages Research Group


    Computer Science Department

    University of Colorado at Boulder

    Academic Year 1996/97




   Programming Languages and Compilers Research Group


   Faculty


      William Waite
   ,

   
      Ben Zorn
   ,

   
      Vince Heuring 
   ,

   
      Dirk Grunwald
   ,

   
      Wayne Citrin
   .



   Research Interests 


Programming language research at the University of Colorado
encompasses design, translation and run-time support.
Our interests span the spectrum, including problems of visual, functional and
object-oriented languages as well as mainstream languages like C and
FORTRAN.
Our emphasis is on practical and experimental work rather than theory.
We have a number of industrial partnerships, and make many of our results
available as running software.


Specific interests of group members are
the structure and applications of visual languages (Citrin),
methods for improving the performance of object-oriented languages
(Grunwald).
and appropriate techniques to generate optimized code for standard languages
on modern computers (Grunwald, Zorn).
A long-running project is concerned with providing executable
specifications for the entire compilation process and automating the
production of the compiler from them (Waite).


   Major Funded Research Projects


The main funded research projects in this area include:


 High performance environments and languages -- funded by ARPA and
           carried out in cooperation with Indiana University and
	   the University of Oregon
   
 Completely visual programming languages and environments - funded
	   by the Colorado Advanced Software Institute (CASI) and US WEST
	   Technologies.  See
	   VIPR
	   for more information.  Investigators: Wayne Citrin and Ben Zorn.



   Facilities


Experimental projects in the programming languages area depend on
considerable software infrastructure in addition to the department's
normal complement of compilers, editors and word processors.
Currently these include:


 ATOM -- A program instrumentation tool that supports detailed
	   measurements of program performance for both user code and
	   the kernel.
   
 The
	   
           Eli System 
	   -- A domain-specific programming environment for translator
           construction.
   
 Newtonscript programming environment. An object-oriented programming
           environment for construction of pen-based applications - including
           programming environments - on the Apple Newton Messagepad PDA.
	   A C++ environment for the Newton should be available soon.



   Relevant publications


 R. W. Gray, V. P. Heuring, S. P. Levi, A. M. Sloane, W. M. Waite.
           "Eli: A Complete, Flexible Compiler Construction System", CACM,
           35 (February, 1992) 121-131.

   
 U. Kastens, W. M. Waite. "Modularity and Reusability in Attribute
           Grammars", Acta Informatica, 31 (1994) 601-627

   
 Citrin, W., R. Hall, and B. Zorn, "Addressing the Scalability Problem
           in Visual Programming," University of Colorado, Dept. of Computer
	   Science, Technical Report CU-CS-768-95, April 1995.  (Copies in
	   
	      Mac Word  format and in
	   
	      Postscript  are available.)

   
 Citrin, W., R. Hall, and B. Zorn, "A Visual Lambda Calculus,"
           University of Colorado Department of Computer Science Technical
	   Report CU-CS-757-94 (January 1995).  (Click
	   
	   here for a Mac Word version, and
	   
	   here for a Postscript version)

 Citrin, W., Doherty, M., and B. Zorn, "Design of a Completely Visual
	   Object-Oriented Programming Language," in
	   Visual Object-Oriented Programming,
	   M. Burnett, A. Goldberg, and T. Lewis (eds.), New York:
	   Prentice-Hall, 1995 .
	   (
	      Postscript  available.)

   
 Citrin, W., Doherty, M., and B. Zorn, "A Formal Definition of Control
	   Semantics in a Completely Visual Language," Dept. of Computer
	   Science, University of Colorado, Boulder, Technical Report
	   CU-CS-672-93, September 1993.
	   (
	      Mac Word  version available.)

   
 Citrin, W., M. Doherty, and B. Zorn, "Formal Semantics of Control in a
	   Completely Visual Programming Language," Proc. IEEE-CS
	   Symposium on Visual Languages, St. Louis, MO, October 1994.
	   (
	      Mac Word  version available.)


