Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 00:27:09 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 19 Sep 1996 21:15:08 GMT
Content-length: 5075




CS367 Computers



CS367 Computers

The Computer Sciences Department provides registered students with
a computer account on the UNIX computers.  You may use any of the
UNIX computers named sols or vegas.  They are found
in the computer science building in the labs listed below.  The labs
are open from 7AM - 1AM, seven days a week. 

    1368  vega1  - vega12
    1358  vega13 - vega24
    1363  vega25 - vega36
    1370  sol1 - sol38
    1359  printer room with one UNIX consultant

If you have never had a computer science account, you can activate
your new account by running the newuser program on any of the
lab computers.  Enter at the login prompt the word newuser
and hit return for the password.  Then follow the instructions.

You may also want to use a home or other computer for CS367.  I do
not want to discourage this, since it is more convenient and it reduces
the demand for the lab computers.  There are two ways to use home or
other computer.  You can use telnet to 
connect to the lab computers from a remote location.  This provides
you with the convenience of working on CS367 from your home, office,
or other location without the expense of buying your own compiler.
The second option is to use a home or other computer to develop
your programs on a different compiler such as Borland C++.  If you
choose to use this option, please see the
requirements below.



Using Telnet for Remote Access
You can remotely login to your computer science account on the
 lab machines.  In this manner you are using the other computer as
 a terminal to connect to the lab computers.  The connection is made
 using the telnet program.  On a UNIX machine you would enter:
 
    telnet vega22.cs.wisc.edu
 
 to connect to the lab computer named vega22.  On a PC or Mac computer
 you need to get the Wisc World software from DoIT to be able
 to remotely access the lab computers.  This software provides a program
 named telnet, and you will need to edit the site list to add the
 addresses of the computer science lab machines.  The lab computers
 are at the following addresses:
 
    vega1.cs.wisc.edu  to  vega36.cs.wisc.edu
    sol1.cs.wisc.edu   to  sol38.cs.wisc.edu
 



Using Another Compiler
I suggest that you use a recently updated C++ compiler.  C++ is
 a new and changing language, and older C++ compilers may not work
 with the concepts or code samples I discuss in lecture.  I compile
 the sample code provided using version 2.7.2 of the Gnu g++ compiler,
 the same compiler you would use with your computer science account.

 If you are using a non-UNIX computer, you will need to get some
 exposure to the UNIX operating system.  One of the objectives for
 CS367 is that students learn the UNIX environment and its
 programming tools (i.e. editors, compilers, debuggers, ...) so that
 they are prepared for later computer science classes.

 If you are developing your programs on another computer than those
 provided in the labs you must follow these requirements:

 
You must compile and run your program in your computer science
  UNIX account before handing in each program.  This will provide you
  with some exposure to the UNIX environment.  It is also necessary since
  the graders use the source code, which you hand-in electronically, to test
  your program for correct execution.  Note that there have been times
  when a student's program works fine at home, but won't work in UNIX.
  Most often these problems are simple, and due to things such as variables
  not being correctly initialized.  You should plan ahead, and give yourself
  enough time to verify that your program works in UNIX.
  Problems with home or other equipment or software are your
  responsibility and are not accepted as an excuse.  When you use other
  computers, you are responsible for keeping backups of your work, and
  resolving any problems with the system.  There are too many variations
  of home and other computers and software for me to be of assistance.
  I will only guarantee that software I provide will work with your computer
  science accounts, but experience has shown there are few, if any problems,
  if you are using a recent C++ compiler.
  You must still do the following:

Get copies of the data files as needed.
    Hand-in a copy of your program electronically.
    Watch the on-line information for updates.
    Read your e-mail.
  




Copyright © 1996 James D. Skrentny,
skrentny@cs.wisc.edu



