Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Wed, 13 Nov 1996 23:15:04 GMT
Content-type: text/html


Homework #2



  ECE/CS 552: INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE  
(Fall 1996-97)  
Kewal K. Saluja -- Section 1

  PROBLEM SET 2 
Date: September 26, 1996 Thursday 
 Due Date: October 10, 1996 Thursday

 Note: Optional problems are not required to be submitted. 

 ( 10 points) Answer the questions  3.1, 3.3, 3.4  from
pages 155 -- 156 of Chapter 3 of the text.

 ( 10 points) Answer the question  3.7 from page 156 of Chapter
3 of the text.

 ( optional)
Answer the question  3.37 from page 164 of Chapter 3 of the text. You will
need to read the material on page 163 of the text to answer this question.

 ( 10 points)
A 16-bit machine using two-address format has three types of 
instructions as follows:

The machine contains 16 registers and the  imm-value field of type 3
instructions is 8-bits.  The OPCODE field is of variable length. 
The computer has 18 instructions of Type 2, and 5 instructions of Type 3.
What is the maximum number of Type 1 instructions this computer can have?
Explain your answer.

 ( 10 points)
Compute the worst-case delay of a 64-bit adder that uses only one
large Carry Look Ahead (CLA) unit. In other words the CLA unit has
64 pairs of  and  inputs. Further, assume that all gates used
in the realization of the CLA unit have four or fewer inputs and
every gate has a delay of one unit.


 ( 40 points)
Design a 16-bit adder using carry look ahead method and the gate types from 
the following list. The components are available in the gen_lib. 

Use as little hardware as possible but without unduly increasing the delay.
Determine the cost and the worst case delay of your adder.

Complete the design using Mentor graphic tools and simulate your design. 
(Please see the note below for simulation).
Save your design as you will need it in the successive homeworks and in the
final project.

 Submit the following; (total number of pages to be submitted for this
problem should not exceed 5)

  One page of your design. Chose the page you submit judiciously so that
       it conveys information about the complexity or novelty of your design.

  Chose inputs such that the worst case path in your design is
       exercised. Choose a second set of inputs which represent typical 
       inputs. List both these inputs.  Simulate both these inputs 
       and submit trace outputs with appropriate comments.

  Compare the worst case delay computed by you with the simulated value.


 ( 20 points)  Design a 16-bit Program Counter Register (PCR) on which the
following three operations can be performed. The three operations of the PCR are
controlled by 2 control lines  and . The PCR forms a part of an ALU and its operations
are shown in the table below.  


Assume that DataIn is a 16-bit input bus. The addition
operation must be carried out using the adder designed by you in
the previous problem.

Complete the design using Mentor graphic tools and simulate your design.

 Submit the following; (no more than 3 pages in all for this problem)

  One page of your design. Chose the page you submit judiciously so that
       it conveys information about the complexity or novelty of your design.

  Simulate your design for all three values of the control signals. Chose 
       some typical contents of PCR. Submit these values and the trace outputs.


 Note: You will need to use quicksim with timing mode for these designs.
For this you will need to add the delays to every component you use. 
Default delay values for the gen_lib components is 0 rise time and 0 fall time.
In your design so far you may have seen these values appear with each 
component. The method to change these values is the same as that to 
change a text value. Thus you will have to specify both these
values for every component used. By the way, if we say that a gate has a 
delay of 2, it means both the rise  and fall time delays are 2.

You will see the impact of delays by looking at the trace window when 
you simulate the circuit using quicksim in timing mode.

 

Course Account ece552 
Sat Sep 21 12:25:42 CDT 1996


