Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 20:43:52 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 30 Oct 1996 19:50:31 GMT
Content-length: 5125



 Mathematical Programming at the University of Wisconsin -
Madison 



 Mathematical Programming Research and Education in the Computer Sciences Department 

This is the World Wide Web home page for the Math Programming Group in the 

University of Wisconsin Computer Sciences Department.
Mathematical Programming is the study of constrained and unconstrained
optimization problems. Theory, algorithms and applications are 
principal areas of research. A great variety of problems in nature,
the physical and biological sciences appear naturally as constrained
optimization problems, or can be easily cast as such problems.
Major divisions of the field include: linear and nonlinear programming,
integer programming, complementarity problems and  variational inequalities.


 Table of Contents 

 
	Math Programming Faculty 
  
	Math Programming Graduate Students 
 
	Research Projects
  
	Recent Papers 
  
       Math Programming Courses 
 
       PhD Qualifying Exam in Math Programming 
 
       Relevant Web Links 



 Math Programming Faculty 


  
	Michael C. Ferris 
  
	Olvi L. Mangasarian 
 
	Robert R. Meyer
 
	Stephen M. Robinson



 Math Programming PhD Students 


 
	Paul Bradley 
  
	Ioannis Christou 
  
	Jeffrey Horn 



Research Projects

 
	Math Programming in Machine Learning
 
	CPNET: Complementarity Problem Net



Recent Papers


Compressed postscript versions of recent papers of the Mathematical
Programming Group are available.
 
  
WEB version
 
ftp archive



 Math Programming Courses 


  
	CS 525 Linear Programming 
  
	CS 719 Network Flows 
  
	CS 720 Integer Programming 
  
	CS 726 Nonlinear Programming Theory 
  
	CS 730 Nonlinear Programming Algorithms 
  
	CS 733 Computational Large Sparse Systems 



 PhD Qualifying Exam in Math Programming 


  Reading list
  Previous examinations


 Relevant Web Links 


  John Gregory's Linear Programming FAQ  for sources of public and commercially available LP codes including interfaces with MATLAB.
    John Gregory's Nonlinear Programming FAQ  for sources of public and commercially available NLP codes.
    GAMS Home Page  for modeling software.
    Michael Trick's Operations Research Page  for some interesting OR links.
   Interior-Point Web  for information on interior point 
methods at the Argonne National Laboratories archive. 
   National HPCC Software Exchange for high performance computing software.
   The Operational Research Society of Italy for information on OR in Italy and email addresses of AIRO members.
   Optimization
Codes in the Public Domain.
 




 Periodiacally updated. Contact paulb@cs.wisc.edu 



