Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 21:57:36 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 05 May 1995 15:13:10 GMT
Content-length: 11933



World Wide Web Specification Issues


World Wide Web Specification Issues
Steven Fought - 5 May 1995
 Sources

 W3O Official specifications
   Internet RFCs and drafts
   WWW newsgroups
   Experience

 Personal Experience

 I have been working with Web related programs for 2 years
   Webmaster at Caltech from inception in November 1993 until August 1994
   Implemented database search and entry tools using FORMS
   Installed most Web software packages available for UNIX
   Followed Web newsgroups from the beginning
   Currently the ``Webmaster'' at UW CS

 The Origins of the World Wide Web

 Conceived by Tim Berners-Lee and others at CERN
   Designed to foster communication between High Energy Physicists
   First specification called for a hypertextual system

 Tim Berners-Lee (now with W3O) was asked to design a system that would allow
physicists in different parts of the world to collaborate on projects and
share information using the Internet after it was decided that existing
tools weren't adequate.  

 Berners-Lee decided to use a hypertextual model, and then set out to solve
a number of problems posed by that model.

First problem:
 In any hypertext system you need a way to point to information
objects so you can ``carry'' the pointer instead of the object.

Solution:
 The Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) specification, a general 
specification that makes it possible to point to any document, anywhere.

Uniform Resource Locators (URIs)
 The URI specification ``defines a way to encapsulate a name in any 
registered namespace, and label it with the namespace, producing
a member of the universal set.''

 In other words, the URI specification defines a superset to all 
existing and possible namespaces.  Any namespace can be given a 
label and incorporated into the URI space.

Properties of URIs

 Extensible
 New naming schemes can be easily added.
 Complete
  It is possible to encode any naming scheme
 Printable
  URIs are encoded in 7-bit ASCII and are designed to 
be at least partially human-understandable and communicable.

Parts of the URI specification
 URIs consist of two parts:  


 A prefix that indicates what namespace is being referenced, 
followed by a colon
 A string with format defined as a function of the prefix

 The extensibility requirement is met by the ability to register new unique
prefixes.  The completeness requirement is met by the ability to encode
any binary information in the string following the prefix (in Base64, 
for instance).  The printability requirement is left to the implementation
of specific namespace encodings.

Special considerations and reserved characters in URIs

 \ 
 is reserved as an escape character, so non-7-bit ASCII characters
and reserved characters can be used in URIs easily
 / 
 is reserved as a delimiter of a hierarchical set of substrings
 . and ..
 are reserved if they are used between / characters, to 
indicate the current and previous level in a hierarchy respectively
 \# 
 is reserved to separate a URI from a ``fragment identifier''
 ? 
 is reserved to delimit the boundary between a URI and a 
queryable object
 + 
 is reserved as a shorthand notation for a space, so real + 
signs must be encoded.
 * and !
 are reserved for use with special significance within
specific namespaces.

Relative URIs
 Reserving /, . and .. allowed the specification of relative URIs, which 
work much like relative paths in a filesystem.  When a relative URI is 
found the URI of the containing document is used as a reference to construct 
a new full URI following these semantics:


 If a partial URI starts with some number of slashes, the parent URI
is searched for the first occurrence of the same number of slashes, and the
relative URI is substituted for the remaining part of the parent, provided
that no greater number of consecutive slashes are in the remaining part of
the parent.
 Within the result all occurrences of ``xxx/../'' or ``/.'' are
recursively removed, where ``xxx'', ``..'', and ``.'' are complete 
path elements.

Examples of relative URI substitutions

If the parent URI is http://www/b/c//d/e/f the following partial URIs 
result in the listed full URIs:


 g 
 http://www/b/c//d/e/g
 /g 
 http://www/g
 //g 
 http://g
 ../g 
 http://www/b/c//d/g
 g:h 
 g:h

 Note that using the parent URI http://www/b/c//d/e/ would 
yield the
same results.


Second problem:  Pointing to the documents we have now.

 Now that a we have the URI specification, we need to be able to point to 
existing documents available on the Web.

Solution:  The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) specifications, one for 
each supported Internet protocol.

Some examples:

 ftp:  
   ftp://ftp.cs.wisc.edu/condor/
 telnet:  
   telnet://keeper:notquite@spacely.cs.wisc.edu
 http:  
   http://spacely.cs.wisc.edu:8000/home.html

Side note:  Work on the URN specification
 There is a working group of the IETF attempting to define a Uniform Resource
Name specification.  URNs are meant to be persistent objects regardless of
how machine and server configurations are changed.  URNs solve the same problem
for URLs as DNS solves for IP numbers.

Third problem:
 Now that we have pointers to document objects, we need a
place to put them.

Solution:  HTML, the Hypertext Markup Language. 

 Design features of HTML:

 Defined as an SGML Document Type Definition, allowing easy 
  processing of HTML by SGML parsers
   Structural Markup
   Simple and quick to render (no lookahead)
   Human readable and editable (no special tools are needed to create 
  HTML documents)

 HTML is beyond the scope of the talk.

Side Note:  Multimedia and MIME
 The original Web browsers used the extension of a file to determine its type.
This method had several disadvantages:

 A single extension may be used for more than one kind of file.
   File extensions do not generally carry enough information to allow
  identification of a file format by a human.
   Not everyone will agree on what file extensions map to what types of
  files.

 To fix this problem parts of the existing MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail 
Extensions) system was integrated into Web clients and servers.

How MIME works
 Before a document is transmitted it is assigned a MIME type by the server or
mailer.  This assignment is often made based on file extension, but because
the assignment is made locally the user can make sure the appropriate type is
defined.  The MIME type is a description of the contents of the file.

 When the file is received, the browser uses the MIME type to find an 
appropriate viewer for the file.

 MIME features:

 New MIME types can be added at any time
   An official organization exists to register and distribute 
  MIME types
   Several implementations of either end of the MIME system exist for
  many different architectures

Fourth Problem:
 How to transfer documents from the author to the user.

Solution:
 The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).

 Any simple summary of the features of HTTP would ignore the serious
changes its role precipitated by other changes in other WWW tools.
A chronological summary of the changes in HTTP features is more interesting.


HTTP 0.9:  The original features and purpose
 The first version of HTTP to be distributed widely was 0.9.  The only 
request that could be made was ``GET (url)'', where ``url'' is an HTTP URL
with the prefix stripped.  The document pointed to by the URL would be 
returned to the browser.

 HTTP 0.9 was designed to deliver documents with the lowest amount of 
overhead as possible.  FTP can perform the same function, but it requires
a costly login process.  HTTP is a stateless protocol.  Berners-Lee saw
that a document would be transferred and read, and then a link would be 
followed to another document, possibly not on the same server.  There was
no advantage to keeping a socket open.

HTTP 1.0:  Document Typing and CGI
 The next version of HTTP was designed to fix a number of problems with the
previous versions and add new features.  The major change was the addition
of document typing using MIME-related headers.  In addition other 
Methods were included in addition to the GET method.  Some of 
these were:


 HEAD
 is the same as GET, but only returns the headers
 PUT 
 allows data sent to the server to be stored under the supplied
URL (not widely used)
 POST 
 Creates a new object based on the data sent that is linked
to the object specified in the supplied URL
 LINK 
 links an object to the specified object (not widely used)
 UNLINK 
 removes a link or other information from an object

 The most important of these methods is PUT, which is used in conjunction
with the Common Gateway Interface.

The Common Gateway Interface (CGI) and Forms
 Forms:  A specification for creating a fill-out form within an HTML document.
Each browser that implements Forms is responsible for packing the information
into a special format when a form is submitted and sending it to a specified
URL.

 CGI:  A specification for a script on an HTTP server that has its own URL.  
When the URL is accessed, the script is run and its output is sent to the
client.  Used in conjunction with Forms, a set of scripts can carry on a
"dialogue" with a client.

Interesting note:  Because HTTP is stateless, CGI scripts often have to 
play tricks to ensure that the state of a conversation is stored in the 
document returned to a client.

Problems caused by inlined documents
 During the development of Mosaic, one of the programmers (Marc Andreesen)
decided he wanted to add support for displaying pictures inside of
documents.  As with every decision made by Andreesen and the new Netscape
Communications company since, he designed a quick-and-dirty solution
that served his needs and caused significant problems he could blame on other 
people.  

 Rather than find a way of encapsulating a picture with a document he decided
on the most general model, which was to have the browser perform an
additional request for each picture.  This changed the model that Berners-Lee
had originally envisioned and created performance problems caused by the
overhead of forming a TCP socket.

Proposed solutions to the inlining problem
 There are two proposed solutions to the problem of inlined documents:  


 Include a multiple GET method in HTTP 1.1, which will require
at most two sockets to be created (one for the original document, and the
other for the supporting documents).  
 HTTP-NG, which is based
on top of the Session Protocol Architecture and allows multiple 
low-level
virtual connections to be encoded on top of one socket.  The socket could
be kept open until the browser was finished with the server.

HTTP 1.1:  Proposed Additions to the protocol
 Other additions include support for more advanced applications, and 
for encryption of sensitive data.  

 Care is being taken to ensure that the protocol will be extensible.



