Date: Mon, 04 Nov 1996 23:41:29 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 25 Feb 1996 02:19:43 GMT
Content-length: 2457

Word Virus

This virus has been going around, if you have Microsoft Word, please
check your system.

(This info is from Tech-partners)
The "Concept" virus is written using a WordBasic auto macro, which
means that it can affect both Macintosh and Windows versions of
Word 6, and  Word 7 for Windows '95. The current version is harmless
but there is no reason why it could not be altered to be harmful;
anyone who has the virus has the source code.

Here's Microsoft's recommendation for how to deal with this
virus (excerpted from their tech-note #Q134727 in the 
Microsoft
KnowledgeBase Choose the
product category "Word for Windows and Macintosh" and you can
type in this article number as a keyword to retrieve the entire
article.)

HOW TO REMOVE THE "CONCEPT" VIRUS

 Remove the macros:
             
 On the Tools menu, click Macro.

              In the Macros Available In list, click All Active
                Templates.

              Select the macro named AAAZAO.

              Click the Delete button. Click Yes when asked if you want
                to delete the macro.

              Repeat these steps for the macros named AAAZFS, AutoOpen,
                and FileSaveAs.
             
   NOTE: Leave the macro named PayLoad in the template.
                Although this macro was installed by the prank macro, its
                presence prevents the prank macro from installing itself
                in the future.
 Correct any affected documents (you must first complete Step 1
             in order for this to work):

              Open a document that has been affected by the document (a
                dialog box containing the number one appears when you do
                this).

              Select the entire document by pressing CTRL+A or by
                clicking Select All on the Edit menu.

              Eliminate the document's final paragraph mark from the
                selection by pressing SHIFT+Left Arrow.

              On the Edit menu, click Copy.

              On the File menu, click New. Select the template you
                want to use, and click OK.

              On the Edit menu, click Paste.

              Save the document.
             



