Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 22:06:05 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 30 Oct 1996 05:47:04 GMT
Content-length: 4647



 viH's Home Page 








 NOTE: This page has been pretty much abandoned by its creator!


ViH is a vi like editor that has built-in support for the Hellenic
(Greek) ELOT-928 character set. viH is build on top of vim version 1.27.
Vim was developed by Bram Moolenaar mool@plex.nl.
Click 


here

for details on vim itself.


 So far, viH has been tested only on Unix like systems running X11. Given time,
resources and sufficient interest I will try to port it to other systems.
viH has been developed over a short period of time and it has not been tested
extensively. It is distributed in the hope that it will be useful. Please feel free to

send

any comments, suggestions or bug reports to:


	Andreas Moshovos
	CS Dept.
	Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison
	1210 W. Dayton St.
	Madison, WI 53706
	e-mail: moshovos@cs.wisc.edu


You can get the latest version of viH at


http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~moshovos/viH/viH.html
.





 (February 7, '96) The accent and umlaut keys can be changed through a
set of commands

 :set accent= changes the accent modifier (default is ') 
 :set umlaut= changes the umlaut modifier (default is :)

 Brief

how-to-use  document.
 Brief

how-to-compile  document.
 (January 15, '96) Fixed umlauted map in hellenic.c.



Binaries and source code are available. I will try to compile and add binaries
for as many architectures as I can. If you have a compiled version of viH
for a system that is not currently in the list I will gladly add a link
to your site.

Note that when you download the executables using NETSCAPE you are going
to get a screen of incomprehensible text. Use the "Save As..." option
to get a copy of the executable on your disk.
 Finally, a note on copyright. Please take the time to read the README.viH
file which can be found in the source code distribution. Briefly the terms
are the following:



 You are welcome to use, share and improve the Hellenic
specific part of viH. You are forbidden to forbid anyone else to use, share
and improve what you give them .



 Brief description of the Hellenic features of viH. Click
 here.
 C source code in tar, gzipped form (~217K). Click

here
.

How to compile  guide.
 Sparc SunOS 4.1.3 statically linked gzipped executable (~143K). Click
 Sparc Solaris 4.1.3 statically linked, ELF 32-bit, gzipped executable
(~158k). Click
 here .
 Linux 1.2.9 statically linked gzipped executable (~92K). Click
 here .
 This is an older version, please recompile.
 SGI, IRIX 5.2/5.3 from 


	bekas.cog.brown.edu
.  Provided by Thanasis Protopapas (protopap@bekas.cog.brown.edu).
 This is an older version, please recompile.





Although viH can edit in Greek you'll need a Greek font to be able to
look at the text! You can get some from the

Hellenic resources network

or from 

pnevmati@cs.wisc.edu

There is also a local copy of the

"Obtaining and Installing Greek Fonts"

from 

www.hyper.gr
.




my home page




