Date: Fri, 13 Dec 1996 16:19:37 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 12 Dec 1996 00:02:30 GMT
Content-length: 5119



Peter DeVries - Related Experience


Peter DeVries - Related Experience
Committees
UW-Madison Tech Partners Steering Committee
Madison Macintosh User Group Officer

Database Administration and Development

Developed an electronic logbook system for the microscopes at the IMR. This system
allows the monthly billing records, and the usage section of the NIH annual report,
to be compiled automatically rather than by re-entering data by hand from a
standard logbook.

Developed a database system for managing the IMR's internal and external projects
which also exports a report in a format required for the NIH annual report.

Developed and supervised the maintenance of an integrated system of
spreadsheets and databases which automate the purchasing and other records
for the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, the Integrated Microscopy Resource and
the Cellular and Molecular Biology Program.

Developed export software and procedures to make existing data available via the
Web. With this system, the office need only maintain and update one
Cellular and Molecular Biology faculty database and one Molecular Biology staff database,
both used internally and automatically exported to printed and Web versions.

Developed methods for integrating databases with the Web so that users can
search, view and update information over the Web.

Systems Analysis, Management and Support

Analyze needs and recommend hardware and software for the faculty and staff
of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology and the Integrated Microscopy Resource.


Maintain software records for legal compliance.

Order, install and maintain the facilities' 80 Macintosh computers and their peripherals.

Order, install and maintain the facilities' diverse software packages.

Create flexible standards to minimize software, support and end-user training costs.

Maintain software version compatibility within a diverse hardware
base.

Answer faculty, staff and graduate student questions about software and hardware.

Train faculty, staff and graduate students in the use of hardware and software.

Train and supervise three student employees.

Networks & Communications:

Design and manage the Molecular Biology and IMR Network, composed of over 120 devices.

Evaluate, install and maintain the following network hardware, software and protocols:

Network Hardware: Hubs, Managed Hubs, Bridges, Switches, Routers
Network Protocols: AppleTalk, TCP/IP, IPX
Network Wiring: LocalTalk, 10baseT, 10baseF, 100baseT
Servers: AppleShare, FTP (Unix), Web (NCSA,Webstar)
Web-Database Integration: (FileMaker/WebStar)
Software License Server: (Keyserver)
BBS, Groupware, Email: Manage the Madison Mac User Group BBS (FirstClass)
Email Listservers: (ListStar)


Web Design and Administration:

Web Administrator and Author for the following Web areas:

Laboratory of Molecular Biology
Integrated Microscopy Resource (A 4-Star Magellan Internet Site)
Cellular and Molecular Biology Program


Software Programming and Authoring:

Developed the full-color confocal merging software technique that is
widely used by microscopists. Co-authored an article describing the technique
which appeared in the January, 1993, issue of BioTechniques. Images resulting
from this PC software have appeared in Science, Discovery Magazine and on the Disney Channel.
Now all confocal microscopes include the ability to create 24-bit color merged files as a
standard feature.

Developed the initial versions of "4D Navigator" Mac software for
the viewing of 3D microscope data over time.

Developed a "Multimedia Tour of the Integrated Microscopy Resource" for
the Governor's Conference on University-Industry relations.

Developed "Frogs & Toads of Wisconsin," an educational Mac software
program, used at the University of WI - Eau Claire  and University of WI
- Madison.

Developed a PC hardware and software system for the acquisition,
analysis and graphing of biological rhythm data. The system can be used
with running wheels, infrared light beams or any other "switch". The
system is currently in use at Lawrence University and the University of
California at Berkeley.

Video Production:
Train students in animation, morphing and digital video techniques.

Supervise the production of movies and videos for scientific presentations and the Web.


Tuesday, December 10, 1996, 3:35 pm
Peter DeVries (pdevries@cs.wisc.edu)


