Date: Mon, 11 Nov 1996 17:24:46 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 01 Mar 1996 17:52:01 GMT
Content-length: 4486



CS 537 - Programming Assignment #2





UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MADISON

Computer Sciences Department




CS 537

Spring 1996 
Bart Miller


Programming Assignment #2

(Due Tuesday, March 5, at 5pm)



A Parallel Producer/Consumer Program

The goal of this assignment is to get experience in writing a program
that actually runs in parallel.
You will write a program with four processes, structure like:








The Reader process will read an input file, one line at a time.
Reader will take the each line of the input and pass it to process
Munch1.

Munch1 will scan the line and replace each blank character with
an asterisk (``*'') character.
It will then pass the line to process
Munch2.

Munch2 will scan the line and convert all lower case letters to
upper case (e.g., convert "a" to "A").
It will then pass the line to process
Writer.

Writer will write the line to an output file.

 Synchronization and Communication

The processes will communicate through shared memory.
Each of the three pairs of communicating processes will have a queue of
buffers between.
This queue will be represented by a C++ class that you will call
SyncQueue.
The SyncQueue class will be implemented as a fixed sized buffer;
the constructor for the class will take a parameter (with a default) to set
the size of the buffer.

You should use semaphores to make sure
that processes do not insert or remove data from the
same queue at the same time.
You should also make sure that each buffer queue is locked separately,
so that only the pair of processes using that buffer queue would block.
The semaphores should be part of the SyncQueue class definition,
so each instance of the class produces a new queue with new semaphores.

You will use the semaphore and thread operations supported by the Solaris
operating system.

We have prepared a summary of the functions that you will use, and special
instructions for compiling your program.

For this assignment, you must use a Sun workstation running the Solaris
operating system.

For semaphore operations, you will use sema_init,
sema_wait (the P operation), and sema_post (the V operation).
In addition to the description that we provide, you can use the "man" command
to find out more about these functions.
Compiling Your Program

You must do a few special things to
compile
a program to use threads and synchronization.
Follow the instructions carefully or you will get strange (and incorrect)
results.
Program Details


Your program will create four new threads.
To do this, you will start your program and it will create four
threads (using the thr_create function).

Thread Reader will read in each input line.
If the line is longer than 63 characters, it will truncate it to 63
characters (plus the null byte at the end).
Just throw away any extra characters.

See the manual page entry for the function "index"
to making writing Munch1 easier.

See the manual page entries for
"islower" and "toupper"
to making writing Munch2 easier.
(Read these function names as
"is lower" and "to upper".

Thread Writer will count the number of lines and print
this number to cout.

Deliverables

You should hand in a print-out of your program, including all .C (.cc) and
.h files.
Also hand in your Makefile.
You should run your program on the data stored in
~cs537-2/public/program2/DATA.test.
This file is not yet available.
Do
not
print the data file nor should you hand in the output of your program..

After your program is completed, you will meet with Muthiah to demonstrate
your running program.
Make sure that you do not modify your files after you turn in the program.


Last modified:
Tue Feb 20 09:27:57 CST 1996
by
bart


