Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 21:42:18 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 30 Jun 1996 23:48:31 GMT
Content-length: 6674



People


People I know



I have a friend in Ohio named Phil Watson.  He is married
to Amy.
The have a brand new daughter named Julia.  His
page is a virus-free environment.  Your safety is his concern.




























Chris Bach is
another guy from Ohio.  He and Phil and I have a band.  None of our
music is available.  Chris is probably in Vermont.







My friend Alissa Barthel is trying
to cure cancer.  She doesn't look anything like the photo to the right.
















Jason Mitchell is a
soulless killer.  Behind those glassy eyes there is only one thing: death.


Andy Clark was my suitemate
for 3 years during college.  We spent a hell of a lot of time watching
Mary Tyler Moore.

Eugene Shumulinsky was
one of my suitemates too, though his tour of duty was not quite so
long as Andy's.  The country he was born in no longer exists.









Amir Roth is one of my
officemates.  When he was seven and lived in Israel he was a friendly,
well-adjusted child.  When he came to the US he couldn't speak any
English at first so he always thought that the other kids were picking
on him.  In high school, an influential gym teacher helped him
redirect his anger and he is now the world's most skilled kickboxer.
He can breathe underwater.  When he is in trouble he calls his
underwater friends for help.

















Chris Lukas only cares
about one thing: netrek.







David Melski is a
character in a story.  He doesn't know though, so don't tell him.  He
still thinks he's real.












"




Paul
Ferguson is an omnivore.  He lives on the planet earth.  He
dislikes the comic strip "Nancy".  He is one of my housemates.  He
likes chess.









Jonathan Goldstein is another of my housemates.  He doesn't have a
home page.  I have made a fake one for him as a form of
reputational blackmail.  Check it out.



















Throughout the midwest, the name Steven Fought is synonymous
with fine landscaping.  If you've got a problem lawn, give him a
call.  Steven is also one of my housemates.









What can I say about Marc
Shapiro?  He is good at spelling.


















Martin Reames is a
corrupt southern politician.







Ben Teitelbaum talks with
Chris Lukas a lot.  Can't trust either of them.









Last modified: Sun Jun 30 18:48:31 1996 by Todd Turnidge

turnidge@cs.wisc.edu



