Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 21:47:19 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Mon, 26 Aug 1996 16:13:13 GMT
Content-length: 4107



Quince Testing Ground


Quince - the Internet's Ultimate Wordgame
[Beta Testers]
[Known Problems]
[Rules of the Game]






Welcome Quince Beta Testers!

This is a work in progress.  Some features are obviously not
implemented yet.  Most notably, I haven't written the Quince server;
so what you see is just a dumb front-end.  Please mail me if you find any bugs or have
constructive criticism of any kind (other than to get a life!).
Thanks for your feedback,

Ben.


Beta-Testers Hall of Fame
The following folks have either found bugs or made helpful suggestions leading to improvements in the game: 
	
	Daniel Prince, Chris Lukas, Felix Teitelbaum
	
These Quince heros will be credited on the "About" screen in the final version.


Known Problems
Netscape 3.0 for Unix

 Deletion from the word list is broken. 
	
Explorer 3.0 for Win95

 There seem to be occasional white stripes across the board and the
timer -- they're covered by the board/timer, but they show just a little
at the sides.  Hard to describe...  I couldn't figure out a pattern to
when they appear and disappear. -Dan Prince
	

Rules of the Game

 Goal: find as many words on the board as you can in three minutes.
	 Valid words consist of a sequence of neighboring tiles from the board.
	 The neighbors of a tile are the tiles bordering it in all directions - vertically, horizontally, and diagonally.
	 A tile may not be re-used in spelling a word.
	 Words must be four letters or longer.
	 If playing Euclidian, edge tiles have fewer than eight neighbors.  
	 If playing non-Euclidian, the neighbors of an edge tile are considered to "wrap around" the board.
	
Entering Words

 Enter words either by dragging them out on the board or typing
	  	  them into the text box below the board.
    Erroneously entered words can be deleted from the word list by selecting the mistake and pressing Delete or Backspace.
	 When dragging out a word, you can back up by dragging over the tile just before the tail of your selection.
	 When dragging out a word, wou can press and hold the Shift key to disable selection; this is useful when selecting wrapped words in Non-Euclidian mode.
	 Clicking on the word list to the right of the screen displays the word on the board.
	 Clicking on the buttons beneath the board has the following effects:
		
 "<" - rotates the board counter-clockwise
		 "-" - flips the board vertically 
		 ">" - rotates the board clockwise
		

Sequence of Play

 When you first enter Quince, a dialog box appears asking you to provide a name for yourself and select a language (English only at first).
	 Browse the channels of the Quince server with the channel selector.
	 When you find a game that you what to join, click on the "Join" button.
	 When that game enters a new round, you can begin playing.

	 At the conclusion of a round, a window will appear that shows:
		
 The words found by each player not found by any other player.
			 All the words found by the Quince server.
			 Words found by a player, but not by any other player or by the Quince server are flagged as questionable.
			 Point summaries for all players.
		
 You have 30 seconds to review the results of a round before the next round begins.
	
Scoring

 Points are only awarded for words that you find that no other player found.
	 1 point for a four-letter word
	 2 points for a five-letter word
	 3 points for a six-letter word
	 etc...
	


