Date: Mon, 04 Nov 1996 23:46:57 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sat, 31 Aug 1996 19:19:41 GMT
Content-length: 2549


The Cult of The Wax Hippo

 
  The Legacy  
The Cult of the Wax Hippo began on a whim and its existence is
chaotic and eventful.  Over the summer of 1994 I, James Herro, acquired a giant purple candle
in the shape of a hippo and thus our religion was formed.  This is
Molly, she is our leader. Not by choice. We just declared her a demi-god
and began worshipping. I am a demi-god
too, but it is by accident so no one ever remembers. Dan accidently
declared me a demi-god and then there was nothing we could do.  But I am
still allowed in the Cult. See: This is
Vin, my roomy, and Aimee, the girl we probably guess he was seeing last year, but she is in Rome now. They like the Hippo.  The Cult 
doesn't have any regular meetings or rules. We just take food to Molly in the
 Archi Building sometimes becasue she forgets to eat. Oh! And when the Hippo 
burns it signals the begining of the Apacolypse and the sink was excommunicated
 for being in the way of volleyball. Thats it. If you want to join just get 
your own wax hippo.  I plan on making a sign up thing here for the cult too. 
So if you are interested in joing check back here periodically. later. 
 
 Hippo Update: Sept '95:  We are back for another funfilled year of frivolity and fortune.  However, we have lost our purpose in that Molly graduated last year and the 
  Archi building has been gutted for remodeling. Also the Hippo melted a bit in storage over the summer so The face is slightly deformed. Oh well, theres always Vegas. 
 
 JOIN UP:  If you wish to become an official member of the Cult send mail to jherro@panini.helios.nd.edu.  Just make the subject the Cult and write something on why you want to join if you want. If you don't you can still be in.  I may or may not send you updates on what the cult is doing if we ever do anything but who knows. You will be on an e-mailing list but you might be alone. Oh yeah, also give me your e-mail address because sometimes netscape doesn't tell me it.  I appreciate your support.
 
  Back to my homepage 

