Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 20:57:46 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Mon, 14 Oct 1996 14:23:40 GMT
Content-length: 7061




CS367 Exams



CS367 Exams

There will be three exams for CS367, two midterm and one final exam.
Exams count for 50% of your final grade.  Information on the exam
format, studying tips, and
topics for exam 1 may be found below.  Topics for
the other exams will be added to this page as the semester progresses.
The exam dates are:


Midterm 1  15%  Wednesday  10/23/96  7:15 -  9:15 pm, 1361 Chemistry
Midterm 2  20%  Tuesday    11/26/96  7:15 -  9:15 pm, tba
Final      15%  Wednesday  12/18/96  5:05 -  7:05 pm, tba

Make-up exams for the midterms are given only with my permission when
you are unable to take the regular exam due to extenuating circumstances.
A request for a makeup exam must be made during my office hours, and must
be brought to my attention two weeks before the exam date.  I will waive
this requirement for verifiable emergencies, but no requests for make-ups
will be accepted after the actual exam is given.

There will be no make-up for the final.  Final exam dates are listed in
the Timetable so that students can avoid conflicting final exams.  



Exam Format
Exams have from five to ten questions (some having multiple parts), are
 designed for a two hour exam period, and an average score of 70 points
 out of 100.

 Exam questions fall into three categories, tracing code, writing code,
 and miscellaneous.  You can expect to see each of these three categories
 on the exams. Tracing requires you demonstrate understanding of code
 provided by showing the output or results generated, diagraming code
 execution, or describing what code does in general.  Coding questions
 require you to demonstrate your knowledge of data structures and C++
 syntax/semantics by writing C++ code to solve the particular problem
 described.  Sometimes code is provided that you need to use or supplement
 to finish the question.  Miscellaneous questions cover the broad spectrum
 of question styles such as true/false, fill in the blank, multiple choice,
 or short answer questions.  



General Studying Tips
Prioritize your studying.  When I create the exams I consider
 first what we covered during lectures, then the programming assignments,
 and finally the reading materials.

 Study your notes.  Of course this is obvious, but many go about
 studying their notes in the wrong manner.  Don't just highlight your notes
 and think that counts as reading them!  Don't just reread your notes and
 think that counts as studying them   Successful studying requires you to be
 more involved and actively thinking about the material.  One of the most
 effective ways to study is to reorganize and rewrite your notes in a
 succinct manner in terms that you understand. 

 Avoid getting bogged down on specific points.  If you can figure
 something out, move on to other material and wait to ask me or the TAs.

 You'll need to do some memorizing.  Memorizing is a practical
 way to learn the definitions of terminology and concepts.  A good way to
 memorize information is through repeated exposure to the material. 

 Form a study group.  It is often easier and more motivating to
 work with others when studying for an exam.  You can distribute the work
 by having each group member come up with a few questions, and then going
 over the solutions collectively.  If you run into a concept that causes
 confusion, often others in the group will have similar difficulty.
 Together the group can figure something out more quickly than an
 individual, because of the multiple perspectives the members bring to
 the group.

 Finally avoid cramming!  We all know this.  However, though we
 promise ourselves that we will start studying early, often we find
 ourselves waiting til too late.  This is a habit worth breaking.  Studies
 have shown that studying in half hour to hour intervals followed by half
 hour breaks is far more effective than non-stop cramming. 



Exam 1 Topics
Basic C++ discussed in Appendix A of the text will not be directly
 tested, but it will be required to answer questions concerning topics listed
 below.  The key topics covered are listed below:

 
        Basic        *  objects and classes
        OOP          o  interface vs. implementation
                     o  public vs. private
                     o  data members and member functions
                     o  constructors and destructor
                     o  using objects and calling methods
        Advanced     *  using default arguments
        OOP          o  initializer list
                     o  copy constructor (shallow vs. deep)
        Recursion    *  concept & terminology
                     o  simple recursion and iteration
                     o  tracing using the box method
                     o  programming recursion
        Complexity   *  concept & terminology
                     o  growth rate functions f(N)
                     o  simplification of f(N)
                     o  big O notation
                     o  order of magnitude functions
        Search &     *  concepts & terminology
        Sorting      o  searching
			- O(N):    linear
			- O(logN): binary (CH. 2 recursion)
                     o  sorting
                        - O(N^2):    bubble, selection, insertion
                        - O(N^1.25): shellsort
                        - O(N*logN): quicksort, & mergesort
        Basic        *  defining using *
        Pointers     o  operators
			- * "points-to" (dereferencing)
                        - & "address-of"
                        - new and delete (single and array)
                     o  static vs. dynamic allocation
                     o  arrays and pointers
        Linked       *  concept & terminology
        Lists        o  operations (lookup, insert, remove...)
                     o  position vs. key-value oriented
                     o  implementations
                        - singly linked
                     o  variations
			- tail pointer
			- dummy head
			- doubly linked & prev pointer
			- circular list
                     o  recursion and linked lists
        Stacks       *  concept & terminology
                     o  operations (push, pop, peek)
                     o  implementations
                        - dynamic array
                        - linked list (free list)
                     o  using the stack adt
 



Copyright © 1996 James D. Skrentny,
skrentny@cs.wisc.edu



