Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 21:47:43 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Oct 1994 12:54:35 GMT
Content-length: 2679



Access control with httpd


 A brief tutorial on access control and httpd
 Introduction
 Under most circumstances it is not necessary to worry about access
control when serving web documents because you intend them to be read
by anyone who cares to.  There might be times, however, when you would
like to restrict access to your document to a subset of internet users.

 In AFS these restrictions can be made using Access Control Lists
(ACLs).  When people request documents using HTTP there is (usually)
no way of knowing the usernames of the requesters, let alone authenticating
them, so access control has to be based on the identity of the 
requester's machine.  Access control is accomplished through adding
Limit clauses to .htaccess files in the appropriate directories.

 The .htaccess file
 .htaccess files are used to make a server act differently 
when it enters a directory to retrieve a file.  The attributes in a 
.htaccess file apply not only to the directory itself, but to 
each subdirectory as well.  .htaccess files can be used for
a number of purposes, but we are only concerned with access control in
this document.  We will describe the two most commonly needed forms 
of access control in UW CS, and then briefly describe how access control
lists can be constructed.

 Restricting access to users on CS machines
 To restrict access to your documents to users on CS workstations, you
can put the following clause into the .htaccess file in the
appropriate directory:

<Limit GET>
order deny,allow
deny from all
allow from .cs.wisc.edu 128.105
</Limit>
 This clause will allow access to any machine with a fully qualified 
domain name that ends with ``.cs.wisc.edu'' or an IP number that 
starts with ``128.105.''

 Restricting access to users at UW Madison
 To restrict access to your documents to users at UW Madison, you
can put the following clause into the .htaccess file in the
appropriate directory:

<Limit GET>
order deny,allow
deny from all
allow from .wisc.edu 128.105 128.104 144.92
</Limit>
 General use of access control
 If you want to restrict access to your documents to a specific subset
of machines you can do so by entering their names or IP numbers on the 
``allow from'' line (see above).  If you need a more detailed
description you can read the 
NCSA 
httpd documentation on access control.


