Date: Mon, 11 Nov 1996 21:04:34 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 15 Oct 1995 22:31:56 GMT
Content-length: 3353



Class projects


Class projects

VLSI Systems Design 
(CS 755)


Co-designed and simulated a chip implementing a directory controller for 
a shared-memory multiprocessor.  The design was performed at gate and 
standard-cell level, using the M gate-level-expression language and the 
Autologic logic-synthesis tool suite from Mentor Graphics.

(With
Shubu Mukherjee,
Subbarao Palacharla,
and
Steve Reinhardt)


Uniprocessor Computer Architecture 
(CS 752)


Evaluated the efficacy of the Named-State Register File (NSRF) from MIT.
Essentially a cache for
registers belonging to many different contexts, the NSRF was designed for
a multithreaded parallel computer, replacing the fixed number of separate
register files present in a typical multithreaded architecture.  In this
project, we examined the utility of the NSRF for a uniprocessor
running several unrelated contexts.  Our simulation strategy 
involved extracting the register references from a number of running
programs and passing the references to a cache simulator.  Evaluation 
involved varying the number of contexts, time-slice length, NSRF size, 
and NSRF associativity, and determining the resultant miss ratios.

(With
Jignesh Patel)


Parallel Computer Architecture
(CS 757)


Measured the performance of various implementations of software 
synchronization methods both for shared-memory multiprocessors (locks 
and barriers) and for message-passing multicomputers (barriers only).
Evaluation involved measuring the performance of synchronization kernels
on a Sequent Symmetry multiprocessor and on an Intel iPSC/2 multicomputer.

(With Po-Yung Chang)


Parallel Computing and Computational Science 
(CS 838)


Parallelized the NAS Parallel Benchmark APPLU, a computational-fluid-
dynamics simulation code, porting it to data-parallel CM-Fortran for the 
CM-5 and porting it to the Sequent Symmetry.  Evaluation involved running
sequential and parallel versions of the code and measuring its speedup 
for varying numbers of processors.

(With James Puthukattukaran and Phil Stephenson)


Database Design
(CS 564)


Implemented major components of a database management system given a 
specification; components implemented included a paged-file layer, an 
unordered-file layer, an access-methods layer (B-tree implementation), 
and a front-end layer that interprets SQL commands.

(With Olubunmi Odumade)


Back to my home page


 Last updated: October 15, 1995



