Date: Mon, 11 Nov 1996 17:16:57 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sat, 31 Aug 1996 20:43:41 GMT
Content-length: 2412



CS302:  E-mail info for Chad's section(s)




E-mail Information


Electronic mail is a convenient way for people to communicate, and
will sometimes be used to disseminate information to class members 
between class
meetings (the home page will be used first, though).  
Students are also encouraged to communicate via e-mail
using either the e-mail list, or by sending 
e-mail directly to me.  When sending e-mail, make
certain that you have a brief, informative subject line, so that others
can easily determine the content of your message.

Class E-mail List
Our class has a "mailing list" associated with it that we will use
this semester.  The e-mail address is cs302-13list.
E-mail sent to this e-mail list will be received by me 
and all class members registered for this section.  
You may also send e-mail to
this list, and you are encouraged to do so for the following purposes:

Forming study groups, or
  discussion of course material
  (I may or may not participate in such discussion, but such discussions
  are often useful to the participants as well as onlookers).

Sending E-mail to me (
hcl@cs.wisc.edu)
You are welcome to send e-mail to me, and I will do my best to answer your
questions or other concerns promptly.  However, to avoid being swamped by
e-mail, I will follow this e-mail reply policy:


Office visits take priority over e-mail.  Thus if I have
e-mail pending and also students waiting at my office, I will attend
to the students first and then e-mail.

I will give priority to e-mail of general concern.  Thus
e-mail pertaining to important/relevant class material or problems with
my assignments will be handled first.  Questions that are narrow in scope,
such as debugging problems that pertain to an individual student, will
be handled when possible (consultants in the lab should be your first
line of attack).

I can't guarantee that I will reply to all e-mail.  Though,
I will try my best to do so.



Last Modified:  Aug 31 1996 by H. Chad Lane



