Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 20:37:05 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 00:06:59 GMT
Content-length: 3830



Database Management Systems





Database Management Systems
  by Raghu Ramakrishnan

Available now in a beta-edition (ISBN 0-07-052522-6).


This book covers the fundamentals of modern database management
systems, in particular relational database systems.  It is intended as a
text that can be used in an introductory database course for undergraduates,
although it contains enough material to support a second course as well.
The 
Minibase
relational DBMS software has been developed in conjunction with this book,
and is intended to support a variety of hands-on course projects.
The book can be used, optionally with the accompanying software, in
two distinct kinds of courses:

(1)  A course that aims to present the
principles that underlie database systems, with a practical
focus but without any implementation assignments.
For such a course, the software can be used to create a variety 
of exercises and experiments that involve no programming.

(2)  A course that has a strong systems emphasis and assumes that students
have good programming skills in C and C++.  In this case, the software
can be used as the basis for implementation projects in which
students are asked to implement various parts of a relational DBMS.
Several central modules in the project
software (e.g., heap files, buffer manager, B+ trees, hash indexes,
various join methods, concurrency control and recovery algorithms)
are described in sufficient detail in the text to enable
students to implement them, given the (C++) class interfaces.

Database Management Systems is published by the
College Division
of the
 McGraw-Hill Companies,
and is available in a beta edition (ISBN 0-07-052522-6)
for Fall 96 and Spring 97.  The
first edition is expected to be available by Summer 1997.  The book 
and the 
software have both been class-tested at Wisconsin
for several semesters, and will be class-tested at several other
schools in Fall 96 and Spring 97.  




Additional Information:

Table of contents

Organization of the book

Errata and Clarifications

Minibase Software

Supporting Materials
Figures in xfig and postscript formats,
lecture transparencies in MS Powerpoint and postscript formats and
solutions to exercises are available to instructors.  

If you have further questions,
contact
Eric Munson at McGraw-Hill (emunson@mgh.com) or Raghu Ramakrishnan 
at Wisconsin.  If you are an instructor, you can request a 
sample copy.
If you are using the book and have found bugs or typos, or want to comment
on the presentation or content, please 
send me mail.



July 12, 1996


 Raghu Ramakrishnan

[raghu@cs.wisc.edu]




