Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 00:27:39 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 31 Oct 1996 21:38:53 GMT
Content-length: 19822



CS 537 - Processes, Part II (Deadlock) 



CS 537Lecture NotesProcesses and Synchronization, Part II
Deadlock


Contents

 Terminology 
 Deadlock Detection 
 Deadlock Recovery 
 Deadlock Prevention 
 Deadlock Avoidance 


  Using Processes (Continued)  
  Deadlock  
  Terminology  
The Dining Philosophers problem isn't just a silly exercise.
It is a scale-model example of a very important problem in operating systems:
resource allocation.
A ``resource'' can be defined as something that costs money.
The philosophers represent processes, and the forks represent
resources.

There are three kinds of resources:

sharable
serially reusable
consumable

Sharable resources can be used by more than one process at a time.
A consumable resource can only be used by one process, and the resource
gets ``used up.''
A serially reusable resource is in between.
Only only process can use the resource at a time, but once it's done,
it can give it back for use by another process.
Examples are the CPU and memory.
These are the most interesting type of resource.
We won't say any more about the other kinds.

A process
requests a (serially reusable) resource from the OS and
holds it until it's done with it; then it
releases the resource.
The OS may delay responding to a request for a resource.
The requesting process is blocked until the OS responds.
Sometimes we say the process is ``blocked on the resource.''
In actual systems, resources might be represented by semaphores,
monitors, or condition variables in monitors--anything a process may
wait for.

A resource might be
preemptable,
meaning that the resource can be ``borrowed'' from the process without harm.
Sometimes a resource can be made preemptable by the OS, at some cost.
For example, memory can be preempted from a process by suspending the
process, and copying the contents of the memory to disk.
Later, the data is copied back to the memory, and the process is allowed
to continue.
Essentially, this makes a serially reusable resource look sharable.

  Deadlock Detection  

The formal definition of deadlock:


A set of processes is deadlocked if each process in the set is
waiting for an event that only another process in the set can cause.



We can show deadlock graphically by building the waits-for
graph.
Draw each process as a little circle, and draw an arrow from P to
Q if P is waiting for Q.
The picture is called a graph, the little circles are called
nodes, and the arrows connecting them are called arcs.
We can find out whether there is a deadlock as follows:

    for (;;) {
        find a node n with no arcs coming out of it;
        if (no such node can be found)
            break;
        erase n and all arcs coming into it;
    }
    if (any nodes are left)
        there is a deadlock;

This algorithm simulates a best-case scenario:
Every runnable process runs and causes all events that are expected from it,
and no process waits for any new events.
A node with no outgoing arcs represents a process that isn't waiting for
anything, so is runnable.
It causes all events other processes are waiting for (if any), thereby
erasing all incoming arcs.  Then, since it will never wait for anything,
it cannot be part of a deadlock, and we can erase it.

Any processes that are left at the end of the algorithm are deadlocked, and
will wait forever.
The graph that's left must contain a
cycle (a path starting and ending at the same node and following
the arcs).
It may also contain processes that are not part of the cycle but are waiting
for processes in the cycle, or for processes waiting for them, etc.
The algorithm will never erase any of the nodes in a cycle, since each one
will always have an outgoing arc pointing to the next node in the cycle.

The simplest cycle is an arc from a node to itself.
This represents a process that is waiting for itself, and usually represents
a simple programming bug:

    Semaphore s = 0;
    ...
    s.down();
    s.up();

If no other process can do s.up(), this process is deadlocked
with itself.

Usually, processes block waiting for (serially reusable) resources.
The ``events'' they are waiting for are release of resources.
In this case, we can put some more detail into the graph.
Add little boxes representing resources.
Draw an arc from a process to a resource if the process is waiting for
the resource, and an arc from the resource to the process if the process
holds the resource.
The same algorithm as before will tell whether there is a deadlock.
(Ignore the algorithm on page 248 of Tanenbaum.  Not only is it
hard to understand, it is much less efficient than the one presented here.)
As before, deadlock is associated with cycles:
If there is no cycle in the original graph, there is no deadlock, and
the algorithm will erase everything.
If there is a cycle, the algorithm will never erase any part of it,
and the final graph will contain only cycles and nodes that have
paths from them to cycles.
 Resource Types 

Often, a request from a process is not for a particular resource, but
for any resource of a given type.
For example, a process may need a block of memory.
It doesn't care which block of memory it gets.
To model this, we will assume there there some number m
of resource types, and some number E[r] of units
of resource r, for each r between 1 and m.
To be very general, we will allow a process to request multiple resources
at once:
Each request will tell now many units of each resource the process needs
to continue.
The graph gets pretty hard to draw, but essentially the same algorithm
can be used to determine whether there is a deadlock.
We will need a few arrays for bookkeeping.

    E[r] = total number of units of resource r in the system
    C[p][r] = number of units of r currently allocated to process p
    A[r] = number of units of r that have not been allocated to any process
    R[p][r] = number of units of r requested by p but not yet allocated

As before, the algorithm works by simulating a best-case scenario.
We add an array of boolean done[n] with one element for each
process, and initially set all elements to false.


    for (;;) {
        find p such that
            !done[p]
            && for all r,
                R[p][r] <= A[r];
        if (no such p can be found)
            break;
        for each r
            A[r] += C[p][r];
        done[p] = true;
    }
    if (there is any p such that !done[p])
        there is a deadlock;


The algorithm looks for a process whose request can be satisfied immediately.
If it finds one, it assumes that the process could be given all the resources
it wants, would do what ever it wanted with them, and would eventually 
give them back, as well as all the resources it previously got.
It can be proved that it doesn't matter what order we consider the
processes;
either we succeed in completing them, one at a time, or there is a deadlock.

  Deadlock Recovery  

Once you've discovered that there is a deadlock, what do you do about it?
One thing to do is simply re-boot.
A less drastic approach is to yank back a resource from a process to break
a cycle.
As we saw, if there are no cycles, there is no deadlock.
If the resource is not preemptable, snatching it back from a process may
do irreparable harm to the process.
It may be necessary to kill the process, under the principle that
at least that's better than crashing the whole system.

Sometimes, we can do better.
For example, if we checkpoint a process from time to time,
we can roll it back to the latest checkpoint, hopefully to a time before
it grabbed the resource in question.
Database systems use checkpoints, as well as a
a technique called logging, allowing
them to run processes ``backwards,'' undoing everything they have done.
It works like this:
Each time the process performs an action, it writes a log record
containing enough information to undo the action.
For example, if the action is to assign a value to a variable, the
log record contains the previous value of the record.
When a database discovers a deadlock, it picks a victim and rolls it back.

Rolling back processes involved in deadlocks can lead to a form of
starvation, if we always choose the same victim.
We can avoid this problem by always choosing the youngest
process in a cycle.
After being rolled back enough times, a process will grow old enough
that it never gets chosen as the victim--at the least by the time it
is the oldest process in the system.
If deadlock recovery involves killing a process altogether and restarting
it, it is important to mark the ``starting time'' of the reincarnated process
as being that of its ordinal version, so that it will look older that new
processes started since then.

When should we check for deadlock?
There is no one best answer to this question; it depends on the situation.
The most ``eager'' approach is to check whenever we do something that
might create a deadlock.
Since a process cannot create a deadlock when releasing resources,
we only have to check on allocation requests.
If the OS always grants requests as soon as possible, a successful
request also cannot create a deadlock.
Thus the we only have to check for a deadlock when a process becomes
blocked because it made a request that cannot be immediately granted.
However, even that may be too frequent.
The deadlock-detection algorithm can be quite expensive if there
are a lot of processes and resources, and if deadlock is rare,
we can waste a lot of time checking for deadlock every time a request
has to be blocked.

What's the cost of delaying detection of deadlock?
One possible cost is poor CPU utilization.
In an extreme case, if all processes are involved in a deadlock,
the CPU will be completely idle.
Even if there are some processes that are not deadlocked, they
may all be blocked for other reasons (e.g. waiting for I/O).
Thus if CPU utilization drops, that might be a sign that it's time
to check for deadlock.
Besides, if the CPU isn't being used for other things, you might
as well use it to check for deadlock!

On the other hand, there might be a deadlock, but enough non-deadlocked
processes to keep the system busy.
Thing's look fine from the point of view of the OS, but from the
selfish point of view of the deadlocked processes, things are definitely
not fine.
If the processes may represent interactive users, who can't understand why
they are getting no response.
Worse still, they may represent time-critical processes (missile defense,
factory control, hospital intensive care monitoring, etc.) where
something disastrous can happen if the deadlock is not detected and
corrected quickly.
Thus another reason to check for deadlock is that a process has been
blocked on a resource request ``too long.''
The definition of ``too long'' can vary widely from process to process.
It depends both on how long the process can reasonably expect to wait
for the request, and how urgent the response is.
If an overnight run deadlocks at 11pm and nobody is going to look
at its output until 9am the next day, it doesn't matter whether the
deadlock is detected at 11:01pm or 9:59am.
If all the processes in a system are sufficiently similar, it may
be adequate simply to check for deadlock at periodic intervals (e.g.,
one every 5 minutes in a batch system; once every millisecond in
a real-time control system).

  Deadlock Prevention  

There are four necessary condition for deadlock.

Mutual Exclusion.
Resources are not sharable.
Non-preemption.
Once a resource is given to a process, it cannot be revoked until the
process voluntarily gives it up.
Hold/Wait.
It is possible for a process that is holding resources to request more.
Cycles.
It is possible for there to be a cyclic pattern of requests.

It is important to understand that all four conditions are necessary
for deadlock to occur.
Thus if we can get rid of deadlock by removing any one of them.

There's not much hope of getting rid of condition (1)--some resources are
inherently non-sharable--but
attacking (2) can be thought of as a weak form of attack on (1).
By borrowing back a resource when another process needs to use it,
we can make it appear that the two processes are sharing it.
Unfortunately, not all resources can be preempted at an acceptable cost.
Deadlock recover, discussed in the previous paragraph, is an extreme form
of preemption.

We can attack condition (3) either by forcing a process to allocate all
the resources it will ever need at startup time, or by making it release
all of its resources before allocating any more.
The first approach fails if a process needs to do some computing before
it knows what resources it needs, and even it is practical, it may be
very inefficient, since a process that grabs resources long before
it really needs them may prevent other processes from proceeding.
The second approach (making a process release resources before allocating more)
is in effect a form of preemption and may be impractical for the same
reason preemption is impractical.

An attack on the fourth condition is the most practical.
The algorithm is called hierarchical allocation.
The first algorithm in

Project 2

is an example of this approach.
If resources are given numbers somehow (it doesn't matter how the numbers
are assigned), and processes always request resources in increasing order,
deadlock cannot occur.

Proof.

As we have already seen, a cycle in the waits-for graph is necessary
for there to be deadlock.
Suppose there is a deadlock, and hence a cycle.
A cycle consists of alternating resources and processes.
As we walk around the cycle, following the arrows, we see that each
process holds the resource preceding it and has requested the one
following it.
Since processes are required to request resources in increasing order,
that means the number of the resources must be increasing as we go
around the cycle.
But it is impossible for the number to keep increasing all
the way around the cycle; somewhen there must be drop.
Thus we have a contradiction:
Either some process violated the rule on requesting resources, or
there is no cycle, and hence no deadlock.


More precisely stated, the hierarchical allocation algorithm is as follows:

When a process requests resources, the requested resources must all 
have numbers strictly greater than the number of any resource
currently held by the process.

This algorithm will work even if some of the resources are given the
same number.
In fact, if they are all given the same number, this rule reduces to
the ``hold-wait'' condition, so hierarchical allocation can also be
thought of as a relaxed form of the hold-wait condition.

  Deadlock Avoidance  

The final approach we will look at is called deadlock avoidance.
In this approach, the OS may delay granting a resource request, even
when the resources are available, because doing so will put the
system in an unsafe state where deadlock may occur later.
The best-known deadlock avoidance algorithm is called the ``Banker's
Algorithm,'' invented by the famous E. W. Dijkstra.

This algorithm can be thought of as yet another relaxation of the
the hold-wait restriction.
Processes do not have to allocate all their resources at the start,
but they have to declare an upper bound on the amount of resources
they will need.
In effect, each process gets a ``line of credit'' that is can drawn on
when it needs it (hence the name of the algorithm).

When the OS gets a request, it ``mentally'' grants the request, meaning
that it updates its data structures to indicate
it has granted the request, but does not immediately let the requesting
process proceed.
First it checks to see whether the resulting state is ``safe''.
If not, it undoes the allocation and keeps the requester waiting.

To check whether the state is safe, it assumes the worst
case: that all running processes immediately request all the remaining
resources that their credit lines allow.
It then checks for deadlock using the algorithm
above.
If deadlock occurs in this situation, the state is unsafe, and the
resource allocation request that lead to it must be delayed.

In somewhat more detail, we maintain a matrix M of unmet demand.
When a process p starts, M[p][r] is set to p's
``credit line'' for resource r.
Whenever p is granted some resource, not only is the amount
deducted from A, it is also deducted from M.
When a new request arrives, instead of running the
deadlock algorithm, we simply check whether
A has enough resources on hand to grant the request immediately.
If so, we update our data structures to grant it (increase C
and decrease A and M)

    for all r
        C[requester][r] += request[r];
        M[requester][r] -= request[r];
        A[r] -= request[r].

We then test for safety.
To do that, we increase the R matrix of requests by the entire
unmet demand M

    for all p and r
        R[p][r] += M[p][r],

run the
deadlock algorithm,
and restore R and M to their previous values.
If the deadlock algorithm reported that there was no deadlock, we
allow the requesting process to proceed--the request is safe.
Otherwise, we ``take back'' the allocation and add it to our list
of unmet allocations instead.

    for all r
        C[requester][r] -= request[r];
        M[requester][r] += request[r];
        A[r] += request[r].
        R[requester][r] += request[r];





solomon@cs.wisc.edu


Thu Oct 31 15:38:53 CST 1996



Copyright © 1996 by Marvin Solomon.  All rights reserved.



