MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 19:43:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7613
Last-Modified: Sunday, 08-Sep-96 02:13:34 GMT



Deepak Balakrishna 















Deepak Balakrishna

Master of Engineering


Department of Computer Science


Cornell University














Resume





Education





Courses





Personal











 Deepak Balakrishna (gbd@cs.cornell.edu) 
 




      Resume



 HTML 
 Postscript 



 Back to the main page






Education






 Undergraduate




 I completed my undergraduate in June '96 at 
 Karnataka Regional Engineering College, Surathkal, India . 
 I majored in Computer Science. My major interest was in Multimedia. Other courses related to Computer Science 
 were Operating Systems, Artificial Intelligence, Compiler Construction, Data Communications and Computer Graphics.
 



 Graduate




 I am presently at Cornell University pursuing a 
 Master of Engineering degree in
  Computer Science. I am specialising in Multimedia and after graduation, I want to be involved in projects
  dealing with multimedia and web server programming.
  

 Back to the main page









Courses





  The following courses listed are those I have taken for the Fall semester:
  



CS 631 : Multimedia Systems  - Prof.Brian Smith
CS 537 : Advanced Database Systems  - Prof. Praveen Seshadri
CS 519 : Engineering Computer Networks  - Prof. Srinivasan Keshav
CS 501 : Software Engineering  - Prof. Michael Godfrey



 Back to the main page








Personal




 Well! Let`s see. Where do I start? OK! Here goes ...
 
 Once upon a time, long, long ago (actually on November 1, 1973), in a land they call Bharat (India for
 the outside world) at precise 12:00pm was born a cute, chubby little baby weighing approximately four pounds. He took on the name Deepak (meaning light)
 and went on (actually he's still in the process) to change the world. Incidentally, (or probably out of divine interference) Aishwarya Rai (Miss World 1994)
  was born on the same day. My! Isn't she lucky to be born on the same day as me?
  
  Leaving out the miniscule details of my earlier life, let's dive straight into high school. Well, I'm lucky to have been to National Public School, Bangalore
  for a greater part of my schooling. Now, that's the place for someone to be!!
  
  And college? Nothings better than  KREC . Thats where I majored in Computer Science.
  I wonder how long it will be before I get another four year holiday. To have been a part of the all-conquering Class of '96
  was a joy never to be matched.
  
  And here I am, at Cornell University pursuing a masters degree in Computer Science. Well, I just hope it gets me somewhere.
  
  
  And finally, heres a link to my friends :
 Ashish
Aastha
 Indira
Ankit
Vineet

 Back to the main page









