MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 19:38:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4726
Last-Modified: Saturday, 30-Mar-96 19:41:41 GMT

    

Todd Peskin's Web Page









Todd Peskin's Web Page
    Here is a picture of me: 

Contents

  Who am I? 
  Where am I? 
  Where I worked as a Co-op 
  Some of my favorite sites 
  My resume 
  Courses I've taken


 Who am I? 


I am a student in the 

6-year BS/MEng/MBA program at 
Cornell University. 
 This joint degree program is offered jointly through the 
College of Engineering and the 
Johnson Graduate School of Management.
  In May of 1996, I will receive a 

Master of Engineering in 
Computer Science. 
The following year, 1997, I will receive a 

Master of Business Administration.

I am also currently the President of the Cornell Chapter of 

Acacia Fraternity.
If you are a brother of the Cornell Chapter or any other chapter of Acacia and 
you would like to become a part of our mailing list, then please contact me 
through e-mail at tep1@cornell.edu
and I will add you as soon as I can.  If you supply me with your chapter and
your roll number then I will be able to complete your request more quickly.
  


 Where am I? 
Well, the best way to reach me is through e-mail at 
tep1@cornell.edu.
 I check my mail year round so I can always be contacted this way.  Since I 
am an MEng student, I can also be found many times logged on to the CS 
department's computers.  



 Where I worked as a Co-op 
The Fall semester of my Junior year and the following two semesters, I worked
as a Co-op (intern) with BDM International, Inc.
 through
the Engineering Cooperative Program at Cornell.  This program enables Cornell
Undergraduate students in the College of Engineering to supplement their 
classroom knowledge with practical experience working for a company in their
field of experience.  At BDM, I worked on the development and enhancement of 
two national level client/server database systems.  The server software is
run on Sun Microsystem computers and the client software is run on PC's 
running Windows.


 Some of my favorite sites on the Web 

 
ESPN's NHL Web Page
 Stock Quotes Online
 Sun's Java page
 My final project for CS 418 (a large mpeg file)
 The Client Computers Web Page (created for NBA 610)


I have had 
visitors since February 27, 1996


This page is still under construction.  I hope to add some more content to this page 
(possibly including some useful Java applets).  Oh, in case you were wondering, I created the 
"Ticker Tape" applet at the top.  The construction applet was borrowed (with permission) from 
Sun's Java Developer's Kit.


Todd Peskin (tep1@cornell.edu)



