MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 21:25:01 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3704
Last-Modified: Thursday, 02-May-96 14:56:37 GMT



 SYMPOSIUM ON TEACHING LOGIC




            Announcement and Call for Papers
   
                 DIMACS Symposium on
 
              TEACHING LOGIC AND REASONING 
                  IN AN ILLOGICAL WORLD    
       
          Rutgers University   25-26 July 1996  


  Sponsored by the DIMACS Special Year on Logic and Algorithms 
           and the Association for Symbolic Logic 
      in conjunction with the Federated Logic Conference.  
     Hosted by Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 

Logic and logical thinking are central to all disciplines and are
critical in the mathematical and computer sciences.  This symposium
will explore the teaching of introductory logic and logical thinking,
with a primary focus on the college level and a secondary focus on
the high school level.  The symposium will be interdisciplinary,
emphasizing and contrasting approaches used in mathematics, computer
science, natural sciences, and engineering.
The symposium seeks a sharing of ideas, rather than consensus, on how
to teach logic, so that all participants gain an appreciation for the
fundamental issues and ultimately are better able to motivate the
importance of logic and to convey the foundations of logical reasoning
to students.  Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:


Pedagogical Approaches
  Cognitive Models of Logical Reasoning
Empirical Studies
  Exemplary Course Material 
Innovative Approaches
  Courseware for Teaching Logic


Submit an extended abstract (maximum of 4 pages) by 1 April 1996.
Submissions in postscript form are preferred; email them to
lmc@cs.cornell.edu.  Mail paper submissions to: David Gries, Computer
Science, Upson Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA.
Notification of acceptance: 1 May 1.  Camera ready and electronic
paper versions due: 1 July.  Accepted papers will be published in a
locally available proceedings and on the World Wide Web.

                     Organizers 

Susanna Epp (DePaul University), epp@condor.depaul.edu 
David Gries (Cornell University), gries@cs.cornell.edu
Peter Henderson (SUNY Stony Brook),pbh@cs.sunysb.edu 
Ann Yasuhara (Rutgers University), yasuhara@cs.rutgers.edu


For further information, contact Peter Henderson, Department of
Computer Science, SUNY Stony Brook, Stony Brook, N.Y. 11794-4400 USA.
(516) 632-8463, pbh@cs.sunysb.edu.
The symposium will be held prior to the Federated Logic Conference
(FLoC), hosted by DIMACS as part of its Special Year on Logic and
Algorithms.  FLoC includes the following conferences:


IEEE Symp. on Logic in Computer Science (LICS)   27-30 July
Rewriting Techniques and Applications (RTA)  27-30 July 
Conference on Automated Deduction (CADE) workshops    30 July 
Conference on Automated Deduction (CADE)  31 July - 3 August 
Computer-Aided Verification (CAV)     31 July - 3 August 


For further information, see the FLoC home page at
http://www.research.att.com/lics/floc/.  Information about the Special
Year can be found in http://dimacs.rutgers.edu/.


