Date: Mon, 16 Dec 1996 23:40:02 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 28 Feb 1996 13:45:23 GMT
Content-length: 14462





dynamics



Using forces to animate objects

 Introduction  
There are several good reasons why you may want to compute motion of objects
based on forces, rather than attempt a kinematic description of object motion.

 It is often easier to write an expression for the forces on an object
(a differential equation) than it is to directly describe the motion.
 Dynamic systems based on forces evolve "automatically" so than the motion
is physically correct (given the correct equations). This automatic behavior
relieves the animator of attention to lots of boring detail.
 For chaotic systems it is impossible to write a kinematic description.


 Background  
The basis of many particle systems is a description of the acceleration
of the particles.  If the accelerations are given, then the
system is called second order because two integrations must be done to 
get the positions. 

As an example, consider a mass on the end of a spring sliding on a 
frictionless horizontal table. the force
on the mass is given by:  
F =  -k*x  
where F is the force, k is the spring constant and x is the 
length of the spring.
The negative sign appears because the force from a spring pulls in the
opposite direction to the spring extension.

Since  F = m*a  where  a  is the acceleration, 
 
a =  -(k/m)*x  
Now given the acceleration, and if we know an initial velocity and position, 
we can find the position of the mass at any later time. In the case of
this linear spring, we can integrate the acceleration directly to find
that the position is a sinusoidal function of time. The constant  (k/m)
 will determine the frequency of the sinusoidal function, while
the initial position, x0, and velocity, v0, will determine the amplitude and
phase [5]. The position is given by: 


In this simple case, the solution is available, so one could code a
kinematic solution (that is, just plug time into the sin function), but
notice that the description of the system in differential form is more
compact and straightforward. Also if we changed the force to a more
realistic "stiff spring" model such as:
 
F =  -k*x - c*x^3  

we could not directly integrate it, but
would be forced to use numerical methods. The next section will consider
how to perform the integration.


 Numerical integration  
Solving a dynamic system means figuring out how to move the system forward in
time from some set of initial conditions to compute the positions as a 
function of time.  For instance you might want of 
trace the trajectory of a ball after it is fired from a cannon. In general,
direct analytical solutions of the differential equations governing a 
system are hard or impossible. We will outline some techniques for
solving a system by simple (but perhaps not optimal) numerical methods.

As a disclaimer, it is difficult  to construct general
numerical schemes that work for various physical systems. What follows is
a specific approach which works for some systems. Consider it the barest
introduction to the topic of numerical introduction. Much more detail
may be obtained in [1] or [3] or many other books.

We will consider three specific second order systems.

  Three-body gravitation 
  Water waves 
  Billards impact system 

For each system we will first introduce the physics (the force law) then
the scheme to integrate the force law to produce the time-dependent
positions. We will start with a integration scheme which will be used
 only  for intrducing the notion of numerical integration. While
useful to look at, it should almost never be used for actual work.

 The Euler integration algorithm
Let me state again that this algorithm, while easy to understand, is so
inefficient that it should only be used whem programming effort
dominates throughput. We want to start with a differential equation and
show how to integrate in numerically. Start with the differential
equation

 
We want to solve this equation by stepping time discretely forward in
small steps ("small" still needs to be defined).
One discrete approximation of this equation is: 
 

where the n and n-1 refer to two time steps sufficiently close together
that the differences approximate the derivitive.
Rearranging this equation yields: 
 
which gives a explicit form for stepping the system from time n-1 to
time n. This form is thus a way to step a dynamic system forward in time
given an initial state x0. The inefficiency of this method occurs
because of the assumption of constant f(x) across the entire time step.
To be accurate the time step has to be very short compared to the
natural time constants of the system. 

 The Verlet integration algorithm  
A much better alogrithm can be derived by averaging slopes across the
small time interval of integration. One such formulation is called the velocity
form of the Verlet algorithm [1]. This algorithm is most useful for second
order systems where the force on an object is specified and the position
is desired as a function of time. Since the accelerations are specified,
one integration must be done to calculate the velocity and a second done
to calculate the position.

The Verlet scheme is  first updates the position, then use the old and new
position information to update the velocity.



Where 
 are the accelerations calculated from a force law
describing the system and which are usually a function of position.
Note that an is calculated from the just-completed calculation for xn.
 Evaluating both of these equations advances the system  one
time step. To start the solution, a velocity and position have to be
known at t=0. Choosing delta t requires some care. Generally, you can
start with a time step which is around .2 of the fastest time-constant
in the system.

The two Verlet equations can be vector equations if the
motion is 2 or 3 dimensional.

Now we are ready to consider some specific physical systems.

 Gravitation and the three-body problem 
The accleration due to a gravitating mass is 
 
where G is a strength contant, M is the mass of the object pulling on
you, and r is the distance between you and M. Since a and r are actually
vectors we must derive a form of this equation which is useful in 2 or 3
dimensions. We will use 2D here so we need equations for the x and y
components of the acceleration. Assuming body one is located at
r1 and body two is located at r2, and that we want the acceleration of body one:



Where theta is the angle measured from the x-axis of the vector r pointing
toward body one from body two. 
Converting to  a Cartesian form the acceleration of body one is:


where the vectors


The calculation procedure for each time step is to compute:

  the acceleration, a, based on the positions at time n-1
  a new set of positions using the Verlet method
  the acceleration at time n based on the newly computed positions 
  a new velocity from the Verlet method
using the acclerations at times n-1 and n.

For the gravitational animation given at the beginning of this page,
three masses were simulated. The accleration of each mass was determined
as the vector sum of the accelerations caused by each of the other two
bodies.

 Water Waves  
The water wave solver presented here is based on the derivation in Kass and 
Miller [2] for the case of shallow water, low amplitude, non-breaking
waves. The form of the resulting equation of motion for the waves looks
like the classical linear wave equation with a propagation velocity
proportional to the depth of the water.



where h is the height of the water surface and d is the depth, that is,
d(x,y) = h(x,y)-b(x,y)
where b is the vertical position of the containing vessel (or ocean
bottom) at (x,y). The costant g is poroportional to the force of
gravity. This partial differential equation can be discretized
in many ways. We will use a method which is stable enough to be
acceptable for computer graphics. 

First note that the partial with respect to time is the acceleration
of a small surface element of water, so
that if the right side of the equation can be put in a discrete form we
can apply the Verlet method to a 2D grid of "bodies", each representing
a small chunk of water.

To solve this equation numerically we need to discretize it both in
space, on a two dimensional grid, and in time. The discrete spatial
approximation is that the second derivitives (at time n) are 


were i and j are the grid indices in the x and y directions and n is the
time index. Note that at the edges of the array the discrete partial
derivitives depend on values outside the array. These boundary
conditions need to be specified for a solution. One easy boundary condition,
corresponding to no transport across the coundary, is to copy the value
at the edge of the array whenever a value outside the array is needed.
It seems that the solution is more stable if the minimum depth of the
water is limited to about .001 of the average value, rather than letting
it go to zero. So
the depth at time n is given by 


To get the surface motion, first assign an initial height and vertical
velocity to each grid point (i,j) then at each time step compute :

  the acceleration, a, based on the water heights at time n-1 


  a new set of positions using the Verlet method for each (i,j)
  the acceleration at time n based on the newly computed heights 


  a new velocity from the Verlet method for each (i,j)
 Ensure conservation of volume of the total volume by adjusting the
average water height to a constant. That is, sum all the heights over the
whole grid, then correct the sum to equal the initial sum
by adding a small increment to each grid location (i,j).

These steps are repeated to generate moving waves. 
 Disclaimer: While this
integration method seems to give visually reasonable results, it should not
be used for analytical simulations without careful validation. The wave
equation is notoriously hard to integrate using explicit techniques, like
the one described here.



 Billards  
A billards, hard ball, system is different than the other two systems
just described because the forces between balls are zero until they
touch and become very large if the balls try to pass through each other.
This means that there is a large, impulsive force just when the balls
meet and at no other times. The Verlet integration scheme will fail
badly on this system because the accelerations are large for a short
time and thus not smooth enough to average. What we will do to step the
billards system forward in time is to calculate the total change 
in velocity from
a collision, without worrying exactly how forces change the velocity.

The method described here is a less exact version of that described in
[4]. The method described in the paper steps time at uneven intervals,
and is thus unsuitable for animation. My modification steps time
uniformly, at the expense of exact collision dynamics.

The change in velocity during impact can be derived for frictionless
balls of  equal mass by noting that the the impact force must act in a
direction parallel to the line connecting the centers of the
two impacting balls. The change in velocity must be parallel to 
the connecting line also, with the velocity component parallel to the 
line having its sign reversed by the collision and the velocity
component perpendicular to the line unchanged. Projecting the initial
velocity onto the line connecting the centers, negating the result, and
resolving it back into x and y velocity components gives the velocity
change. If i and j are the indices of the colliding balls define:
 
then delta v for ball i is given by the following where the right-most term
represents the projection of the velocity onto the line and the other
term converts the projection back to x,y coordinates. 
 
The calculation procedure for each time step is to compute:

  the delta v based on the positions of the balls
  a new set of positions using 


 if walls are present detect collisions and modify velocities.

The time step needs to be small enough so that the balls do not
penetrate each other too much during one time step.


 References  

 An Introduction to Computer Simulation Methods, Part 1,
 by Harvey
Gould and Jan Tobochnik, Addison-Wesley, 1988 
  Rapid, Stable Fluid dynamics for Computer Graphics, 
by Micheal Kass and Gavin Miller, Computer Graphics, Vol 24 #4, Aug 1990,
pp 49-55 
  Numerical Recipes, by William Press, Saul Teukolsky,
William Vetterling and Brian Flannery, Cambrige, 2nd edition, 1992 
Studies in Molecular Dynamics. I. General Method, by B. Alder
and T. Wainwright, Journal of Chemical Physics, Vol 31 #2, Aug 1959,
pp 459-466 
  Physics for students of science and engineering, Part 1, by
Robert Resnick and David Halliday, Wiley, 1963. 


Comments about Theory Center online documents are welcome and may be sent to
doc-comments@tc.cornell.edu.
 

Last modified, 10/12/95 B. Land. 




Copyright Statement 
 
