MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0pre6
Date: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 23:12:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9969
Last-Modified: Wednesday, 12-Jun-96 23:01:55 GMT




Information sources


DRI Information resources

Information resources I think might be useful to DRI people, maintained
by Jim Davis.


About the DRI
Libraries
Finding more resources
High Performance Computing
National Information Infrastructure
Companies
Universities
Uncle Sam
Other


DRI information

search DRI public files
Full test search of files on our WWW server and archives of DRI mailing lists.
Or browse through the file system tree.

Software environments pages
The Design Research Institute
The home page for our Web server, this is our "front door" to the
rest of the world.



Meta-Servers 

These are the "Yellow Pages" of the Internet.  Some of these are lists
or collections of "good sites" which you browse visually, and others
are search systems (you fill in a form, and it tells you what it has).
The advantage of the lists are that if they are not too long, you can
search them by eye, and if they are well organized, you can search
quickly.  The search systems are usually much larger, and often
contain information gathered by automatic agents which exhaustively
traverse the entire Web.  Unfortunately no single one of these
systems is the best.  You will certainly want to try at least the first
three.

Searches

The first three are all very powerful and comprehensive.


 AltaVista

Inktomi
A fast Web indexer with a large database.

Lycos
W3 catalog
If this is down, see the original site in Switzerland.

World Wide Web Worm

Search
WWW Homepages using Harvest
ALIWEB

Lists

 YAHOO
 YAHOO:  Yet    Another  Hierarchically [insert  O   word]  Oracle
maintained by David Filo and Jerry Yang.  It's become quite popular lately.

What's new
A historical list of new events on the Web, compiled by NCSA.  This
is the same as the "What's new" link on Mosaic's Help menu.

Reference Desk
Good list of references on the net.

All the world's servers, on a map
Global Network Navigator
This highly polished document is published by O'Rielly Associates
is a kind of online magazine about the Internet.  It includes 
the Whole
Internet Catalog, a very useful index of things on the net.
You must register to use it, but usage is free.



Libraries

Cornell Library Catalog
Requires a 3270 emulator.

Mann Library gateway
This gateway connects to a number of useful databases including DIALOG and periodicals index.

CS TR server
Computer Science Technical Reports at Cornell, with links
to other places.

Library of
Congress
See also the Library of Congress
gopher server
Hytelnet
List of online public library catalogs.  Good when you are searching for a book.



High Performance Computing, Simulation, Design

MetaCenter for Computational Science and Engineering
Cornell Theory Center

High performance networking and distributed systems archive
Loughborough, UK


NSF HPCC Science Highlights
National Coordination Office for HPCC
List of High Performance computing sites
List of High Performance research groups
General Electric CE Toolkit
A strong set of demos of GE's work in Concurrent Engineering.

Defense Information Systems Agency
includes JIEO (Joint Interoperability and Engineering
Organization) Center for Engineering Activities
Monthly reports 

National Software Exchange (NSE) for the High Performance Computing 
and Communications community. 



National Information Infrastructure

InterNIC Internet Network Databases
RFC index.
See also RFCs at nic.merit.edu
Internet drafts at nic.merit.edu
UNC Chapel Hill
Includes National Information Infrastructure.


National Information Infrastructure Gopher
National Information
Infrastructure Guide
Enterprise Integration Technologies

Companies
Home pages of various companies.


Xerox
Digital Equipment Corp
AT&T Research
McCaw Cellular Communications
 Cellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD) is a fast, efficient, digital
data transmission system that overlays existing analog cellular
networks. The system operates at 19.2 Kbps per channel. CDPD provides
maximum connectivity by using idle times between cellular voice calls
or transmitting in a dedicated channel environment.

Canon Research Centre Europe
 Natural language processing and audio. No photocopiers.

Hewlett Packard

Object Management Group
Source of Common Object specifications 


 Thomas Register
 one of the oldest and most comprehensive sources of information
about companies. You need to supply a password to use it.  Try
username dri and password tr.


Universities
This is just a list of those that are related in some way to the DRI.
For exhaustive lists of university servers, consult the Meta server section.


Cornell CS
Center for Coordination Science, MIT


United States Government

FedWorld
 White House Interactive Citizen's Handbook
ARPA
United States Census Bureau
NASA
Department of Justice
 Department of Defense
 See also United States Navy
Patent and Trademark Office
Including intellectual property and the NII, and reports
on software patents



Other servers

Search all Usenet news

Geography server Gateway
CIT Gopher
Cornell Information Technologies gopher network.  Include link to CUINFO

Usenet FAQ files
Frequently Asked Questions from Usenet newsgroups.  The technical
groups are often good sources of information.


Searchable FAQ index
Usenet FAQs
list of all FAQs, some of which are in HTML.
FTP archive of FAQs




