MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 17-Dec-96 00:17:40 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3860
Last-Modified: Friday, 27-Oct-95 20:23:41 GMT

Publications related to Tushar Chandra's research

 Publications related to my research
Research in Fault-tolerant Distributed Computing
Message passing systems
For my Ph.D. thesis, I studied
unreliable failure detection in asynchronous distributed systems (together with
Vassos Hadzilacos and my advisor
Sam Toueg).  We showed that a
surprisingly weak failure detector denoted  is sufficient to solve
Consensus and Atomic Broadcast,
two fundamental problems that cannot be solved in asynchronous distributed systems (click
here to find out more).
We then showed that  is the weakest failure detector for solving
these problems in asynchronous systems (click here to
find out more).  For a summary of research on failure detection, click
here.
Sam and I also developed fast and message
efficient algorithms for reliable broadcast.  Click
here to download
a postscript document describing our work.
Sam,
Vassos, and I showed that it is impossible
to solve the group membership problem in purely asynchronous systems (click here
to find out more).

To get an overall picture of the state of research in the area of fault-tolerance in message passing
distributed systems, have a look at
"A Modular Approach to
Fault-Tolerant Broadcasts and Related Problems" by
Vassos Hadzilacos and
Sam Toueg.

Shared memory systems
Together with Prasad Jayanti and
Sam Toueg, I studied how to deal with
faulty objects in wait-free shared memory systems.  Click
here to find out more.

Other Research
Siddharth Chandra and I used undecidability to formally challenge the rational expectations hypothesis
in economics.  Click here to find out more.

Selected list of publications

My Ph.D. thesis (short abstract)

Unreliable Failure Detectors for Reliable Distributed Systems (short abstract)

The weakest failure detector for solving consensus (short abstract)

Fault-Tolerant Wait-Free Shared Objects (short abstract)


Time and message efficient reliable broadcast (postscript document)

Undecidability in Economics: A Formal Challenge to Rational Expectations
(short abstract)
Maintained by tushar@watson.ibm.com
