MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Sunday, 01-Dec-96 20:27:05 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2760
Last-Modified: Friday, 26-Apr-96 04:38:31 GMT







Find Properties of Horus Stacks



Find Properties of Horus Stacks


See also
Validating the Horus Protocols



The tool below allows you to build Horus stacks and see interactively
what kind of communications properties they will give you.


In ``Add/delete'' mode,
click on a ``network'' button (lower right-hand side of the applet)
to define or redefine which network you'll be working over.
Click on the ``layers'' buttons at the right to drop new layers
on top of the stack.
Click on layers in the stack to delete them.
Look on the left side to see what kind of properties the designer
of a user application over this stack might want to provide,
and the properties that the protocol stack will provide when the
application provides the checked-off properties.
(If you see checkboxes, you can click on them to experiment with 
providing or not providing the requested properties.)


In ``Document'' mode, clicking on the name of a layer or property
will produce a window describing the layer or property.


Try stacking the SIGN and NAK layers on top of UDP.
Notice that it makes a big difference in which order the layers are
stacked.
Notice that CHKSUM and NAK over UDP is not very good (because
the stack is subject to attacks by an intruder), but if you replace
UDP with a physically secure network (called Secure in this demo)
you do better.

 
Notice that you can remove the MaxSend application requirement by
adding the appropriate-sized FRAG layer on top of NAK.  
This is the usual approach.
A less usual approach is to put FRAG directly over the network,
and layer SIGN (or CHKSUM, depending on the security of your network)
and NAK on top of that.  Try it.


(The interactive Horus stack property-finder should appear
in this space.  You must not have the ability to run Java applets.
Too bad!)



See also
Validating the Horus Protocols



Copyright Fri Apr 26 00:03:12 EDT 1996 by Cornell University. 
Maintained by
David A. Karr.
Send corrections to
karr@cs.cornell.edu.



