MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Sunday, 01-Dec-96 20:29:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5819
Last-Modified: Friday, 15-Sep-95 19:53:24 GMT



Cornell Center for the Theatre Arts, Jason's page



Cornell Center for the Theatre Arts, Jason's page


I help organize a group of Computer Science people interested in the
theatre (specifically the Cornell Center for the Theatre
Arts).  We buy a block of season tickets, and I pass them out
during the year.  If someone can't make it on one of the days we've
bought tickets for, then I help them sell their old ticket and buy a
new one.  We also have a few extra tickets this year, for friends.
Each ticket costs $5 (the season subscription was $30).  If you are
known to me or the Cornell Computer Science department, and you are
interested in the theatre, send me mail (jyh@cs.cornell.edu), and I'll
include you in further mailings.



Season events for '95-'96 (Power plays)


Seats are reserved in the main (Proscenium) theatre, and they're open
in the Flexible theatre.


The Importance of Being Earnest
Oscar Wilde, Proscenium theatre

In this witty and satirical comedy, two young men seek the hands of
two young ladies despite numerous obstaces--including the fact that
the ladies can only love a man named Ernest.  This 1895 masterpiece is
one of the most delightful comedies of all time--complete with
manufactured mistaken identity, fractured romances, and upended
social conventions.

Plays Septermber 21-30; we have tickets for September 23 and 28.


Fires in the Mirror: Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and Other Identites
Anna Deveare Smith, Flexible theatre

A searing look at two cultures living in Crown Heights, Brooklyn in
1991.  A young black child is killed when a Hasidic man's car jumps a
curb.  An Hasidic Rabbinical student is stabbed and killed in an act
of retaliation.  The ensuing riots wracked a community previously
praised for its atmosphere of tolerance and diversity.  Drawing from
over 50 interviews with Crown Heights residents--politicans,
activists, religious leaders, victims and perpetrators, Fires in the
Mirror acheives a compelling and sophisticated view of racial and
class conflict.

Plays October 19-29; we have tickets for October 21 and 26.



Measure for Measure
William Shakespeare, Proscenium theatre

Shakespeare's most direct exploration of the uses and abuses of power.
In bawdy Vienna, the young Isabella must plead for the life of her
condemned brother, whose fate is in the hands of Angelo.  Though he
administers the law with utmost morality, Angelo finds he desires
Isabella and offers her brother's life in echange for possesing her.
Isabella must choose between her love for her brother and her own
honor.

Plays November 16-December 2; we have tickets for November
18 and 30.


Oleanna
David Mamet, Film forum

A male university professor and his female student meet to discuss her
performancs in his class and soon become players in a fierce
interrogation of political correctness, mechanisms of power,
censorship, and abuse.  From the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of
"Glenngarry Glen Ross", "The Verdict", and "Speed-the-Plow", Oleanna
is at once direct, provocative, and incendiary.

"Shakes up the theatre like no play in years!"--Rolling Stone

Plays January 31-February 10; we have tickets for February 3 and 8.


Working
from the book by Studs Terkel, Flexible theatre

Adapted by Stephen Schwarts & Nina Faso + Songs by Craig Carnelia,
Micki Grant, Mary Rodgers & Susan Birkenhead, Stephen Schwartz, James
Taylor.

    This musical look into the everyday lives of many different
American workers will ring true for anyone who has ever faced the
Monday morning blues or sighed "T.G.I.F."  26 workers from blue collar
to executive tell their stories through music and monologues,
expressing their goals, hopes and aspirations.

"A glorius show that rethreads the fabric of American life and
leaves you cheering."--Daily News

Plays February 15-24; we have tickets for February 22 and 24.


The Seagull
Anton Chekhov, Proscenium theatre

A provocative meditation on the seductiveness of power.  A seagull is
slaughtered.  A young woman is seduced and then abandoned.  The
innocent and hopefull fall into a triangle of love and obsession,
culminating in futile self--destruction.

Plays April 15-May 4; we have tickets for April 27 and May 2.



There are also two Dance Concerts you may be interested in.  We don't
have tickets to the Dance Concert's, but if people are interested I
will buy some.


Dance Concert '96
Proscenium Theatre

Exciting, original choreography performed by Cornell faculty and
students.  Featuring a diverse range of dance--from ballet, modern,
and post-modern to dance theatre--this is a must-see event for dance
lovers.  Extravagant lighting, costumes, and live and original music
set the stage for the hottest new dance in the region.

Plays March 7-10.


Dance Alloy
Proscenium Theatre

Artistic Director Mark Taylor and Dance Alloy have become the defining
force in Pittsburgh's contemporary dance scene, with dance that is
elegant, original, and daring.  Brought to life by the strength and
grace of the Alloy dancers who explore the limits of human movement,
these dances are both physically charged and visually complex.



Thanks to

The Alabama Shakespeare Festival
for the pictures.


