MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Monday, 16-Dec-96 23:56:40 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7215
Last-Modified: Monday, 16-Dec-96 19:49:19 GMT



Research Projects in the Cornell CS Department


Research Projects

These are links to the home pages for a variety of departmental
research projects and groups.  Some projects (marked with a
)
have interactive demonstrations available - try them out!




	Masters of Engineering Projects

	Proposal for new projects and a show-case for completed ones.



	SimLab Modeling and Simulation Project

	Brings together the technologies of geometric modeling,
	symbolic mathematics, numerical analysis,
	compilation/code generation, and formal methods to forge
	new software tools for creating scientific software.



	Robotics and Vision Lab

	Focuses on the topics of machine vision, navigation and tracking,
	robotic manipulation, distributed and cooperative
	robotics, microelectromechanical systems, planning and control,
	uncertainty and error, and geometric algorithms. 



	NuPrl

	A system that implements a constructive theory of types.  NuPrl
	provides both a formal system of mathematics and a programming
	language.  It allows the user to express a wide variety of proof
	and program-building methods as metalevel programs of the system
	and use these to construct mathematical theorems and evaluate their
	computational content.



	HyTech

	HyTech is an automatic tool for the analysis of embedded systems.
	HyTech computes the condition under which a linear hybrid system
	satisfies a temporal-logic requirement.



	Horus

	The Horus project has developed a modular and extensible 
	process-group communication system, addressing the requirements 
	of a wide variety of robust distributed applications.



	CS-TR Project

	The Computer Science Technical Report (CS-TR) project is an
	ARPA-funded consortium of the top five computer science departments
	(Berkeley, CMU, Cornell, MIT, and Stanford) and the Corporation for
	National Research Initiatives (CNRI). The project's goals are to
	further research in the electronic publication of technical reports
	over the Internet and to make available the existing library of
	technical reports at the member universities.



	Project Zeno

	Focuses on multimedia systems technologies, including video
	file servers, network transport protocols, multimedia user
	interface toolkits, and video special effects.



	Information Capture and Access

	The information capture and access research group works on
	ways that computers can locate information in the ever
	increasing volume of online data, determine its structure,
	and extract the information for human users. 

Cluster Computing


        U-Net - A user-level network interface architecture
	
	U-Net offers communication performance on par with parallel machines on
	an ATM cluster of Sun workstations. It supports parallel programming
	environments (such as Active Messages and Split-C) as well as
	traditional networking protocols like TCP.

	
	Active Messages -- High-performance communication
	
        Information about developments using the Active Messages
        communication architecture.

	
	Split-C -- A simple parallel extension to C
	
        Information about developments of Split-C.

	
	CUCS SP-2 -- Computer Science SP-2 info
	
	Information about our baby SP-2. What's installed, where to find it
	and how to use it.


Design Research Institute

	The Design Research Institute is an organization of collaborating
	industry and academic scientists and engineers devoted to research
	bringing computer science and computation technology to bear on
	problems of engineering design. 


ACRI (Advanced Computing
         Research Institute)


The ACRI, under the direction of 
Thomas F. Coleman, 
is concerned 
with scientific computation research and its application to 
engineering and scientific problems.  Of particular importance 
is the use of advanced computer architectures and environments. 
The ACRI resides in both the 
Cornell Theory Center and the
Computer Science Department.



	Audio System for Technical Readings (AsTeR)

	AsTeR --Audio System For Technical Readings-- is a computing
	system for rendering technical documents in audio.



        QMG: Finite Element Mesh Generation

        QMG is a toolkit of C++ and Matlab routines for geometric 
	modeling, unstructured mesh generation for complicated 
	geometries in two and three dimensions, and finite element 
	solution of boundary value problems.  This software is 
	available by anonymous FTP.  The mesh generation algorithm 
	is based on research by S. Mitchell and S. Vavasis.

ARPA funded projects


	MediaNet: A High-Performance Platform for Network Media Processing
	
	MediaNet combines three technologies developed at Cornell to develop
	a flexible, high performance testbed for storing, transporting,
	processing, and using multimedia data.

	
	Horus Distributed Computing Environment
	

        Formal Support for High Assurance Systems
        

        Foundations and Support for Survivable Systems
        
Air Force funded projects


	NYNET ATM Tools for Parallel and Distributed Computing
	



