MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0pre6
Date: Tuesday, 17-Dec-96 00:06:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3028
Last-Modified: Thursday, 05-Dec-96 14:51:02 GMT

Human Power, Biomechanics, and Robotics Laboratory
The Human Power, Biomechanics, and Robotics Laboratory 
  Department of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics 

212 Kimball Hall
Cornell University 
Ithaca, New York 14853
Click here  to go to the department
homepage


 Statement of Purpose

Our interests are twofold; in the first place, we are interested in applying
engineering principles to understand the 
mechanics of human and robotic locomotion.  Secondly, we wish to
provide an opportunity for undergraduates to collaborate with 
graduate students and other undergraduates in this research
and provide applications for their coursework.
Ultimately, we hope that our work will contribute to advances in medical
rehabilitation of the disabled, prosthetic development, excercise
physiology, robotic control and simulation, and the general quality
of undergraduate engineering education.

 Lab Themes 

Fundamentals Of Human Locomotion
Mechanisms Which Are Statically Unstable But Dynamically Stable
How Kinematic Constraints Improve Human Power Output


Ongoing Research Projects 

 Passive Dynamic Walking
 Collision Modelling
 Bicycle Projects
 Constrained Motion Excercise Machine
 Rowing Projects


Papers
We wanted to make drafts of some of our papers accessible over the web
in .html format, but have since given up trying to do any sort of successful
conversion. Suggestions are welcome, but I have tried several methods
already.
If you would like a copy of one of our papers, please email one of us and we 
will send it along.




Lab Information
Advisor:
 Andy Ruina
309 Kimball Hall  Cornell University  Ithaca, NY 14853
607-277-5675 (H)
ruina@cornell.edu

Graduate Students:
Michael Coleman coleman@cornell.edu

Mariano Garcia garcia@cornell.edu
Anindya Chatterjee is now at Penn State at anindya@coriolis.esm.psu.edu

The undergraduate research groups meet individually about once per week 
to work together and discuss progress. There is also a lab meeting every
week during which project members make a short individual presentation of
their recent accomplishments and short term goals.  Participants receive
class credit (usually 3 credit hours per semester) for their work.  They
are required to make a formal presentation at the end of the semester and
to submit a written report describing their work.


Comments regarding our home page, including places of interest
 are welcome.  Please send them to:

garcia@tam.cornell.edu

