Date: Mon, 16 Dec 1996 22:11:15 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 06 Mar 1996 18:11:51 GMT
Content-length: 4855





CS418 Lab 4



 
CS 418: Laboratory 4
 Using a virtual camera 
 Introduction. 

This exercise introduces the concept of a "virtual camera". The virtual camera
is a set of transforms which takes a 3D representation of a set of objects
and arranges for them to be shown in a 2D window.
By analogy, a 35mm film camera transforms the 3D world into a fixed size (35mm)   
image, viewed from a certain point, with a certain focal length of lens. For
a virtual camera we will need to specify where the camera is, where it is
pointed, the width of the field of the camera, and perhaps other parameters
which a real camera cannot have (e.g. clip planes, or variable aspect ratio).

Procedure:

First you need to download several example files. To do this, click on
each of the filenames shown below.  When the text window opens, use the
"save as" option to put the file in your own directory. Name each file with
the same name as shown below. 

  CameraIntro.net 
  CameraIntro.cfg 

  cameraINscene.net 
  cameraINscene.cfg 


Open the program CameraIntro.net and its control panel. When you execute it you
will see that two image windows are opened. One is controlled by the familiar
Image module. The other is controlled by a Camera and Display module. The
Camera module gives you explicit control of the viewing parameters. Whereas the
image module always points at the scene (by default), an explicit Camera
can point anywhere you want and can be controlled by the program itself. On the
control panel, switch the selectors to the Animate position and run the
sequencer. The position of the Camera (the "from" parameter) and the up direction
are now a function  of time. 
The contents of the two compute modules which control the camera are shown
 here. 

 Bugs found as of 2/23/96 


 In the "program fragment" hyperlink replace "approxUP" with
"norm(approxUP)" in the second compute module expression.

  Assignment:
Model a TV sitting on a table next to a simple still life. Model a TV camera
floating in space (chassis, lens tube, lens). Define 
 interactors 
to control
the position, look-to point, up direction, and zoom angle  of the TV camera.
Use these interactors to orient the TV camera in space and to control a 
Camera module to produce the image the TV camera would see. Put the image
on the front of the modeled TV as shown in the image below.
(The cameraINscene program "mirror" is very similar to the TV set.)
You will need to convert the control interactors into rotations and translations
of the TV camera. The Transform module allows you to rotate by an arbitrary
set of basis vectors.
A  program fragment 
helps to explain how to take the three input vectors (to, from, up) and 
convert them to a camera rotation matrix.
Your program does not need to show the recursive image if the camera happens
to be looking at the TV screen. (See image below, right.)
It is more important to be able to control the camera in space and show
the resulting image than to make a fancy TV set or camera model.




 Some results from 1995. 

 Some results from 1996. 

Be prepared to demo your TV program  during section for a maximum of 15
minutes. You will be graded on the correctness of the camera control and the
readability of the program.

You must document your code!  Layout small groups of modules which fit on
one screen and connect them to other groups with transmitters.  You should
use transmitters/receivers, macros, and comments in the "Notation" field of
each module so that you and the grader can understand the program.  Control
panels, if any, should be well organized, labeled, and with the appropriate
numeric ranges.


The
 Lab 4 grading guide 
will be filled out by a consultant during section to evaluate your work.



Back to Main Page


Go to Lab 5


Last modified, 2/23/96, B. Land.




Copyright Statement 
 
