Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 23:29:13 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 24 Oct 1996 14:37:56 GMT
Content-length: 3863



Pattie Orr








Pattie Orr

What I Do:

Manager of User Services
As the Manager of User Services I am responsible for the computer training and support for
 faculty, staff, and students. I oversee the following areas:

Wellesley College DormNet
Faculty/Staff HelpDesk
Public Computing Labs
User Training
Teach Intro to Computer Science
CS110 (Computers and Programming)

Applications Support
My Specialties Are:
Macintosh Support
E-Mail, Bulletin, VAX Support
In Control (Personal Information Manager)
Microsoft Word
(Faculty and Staff should call the Helpdesk for urgent application questions at x3333.):


Professional Interests
My research and greatest professional interest is in Residential Computing and the
effect that this has on higher education. I participate in the ResNet program which
has been based at Stanford University.  ResNet 97 will be held
at Wellesley College June 21-25, 1997 and I will be serving as Chairwoman. Plan to join us....it will be GREAT!

I enjoy surfing the Net and looking for 

ResNet Resources at Other Academic Institutions.
I also participate actively in CLAC (Consortium of Liberal Arts Colleges).  I find that
getting to know technology/information professionals from other small liberal arts colleges.  I recently served as moderator for a
panel of student RCCs (Residential Computing Consultants) at the annual CLAC meeting.
As a result of that session, several CLAC members asked that I outline the basics of the
Residential Computing Consultant Training here at Wellesley.


Another valuable professional group which I enjoy is NERCOMP (New England Regional Computing). 

A copy of the Wellesley case study I presented at ResNet '94.



Personal Interests 
Gone With The Wind....More About the Movie 
Than Anyone Would Want to Know!
Create Your Own Wanted Poster in the Virtual West
Send a Friend Virtual Flowers!
Mail a Virtual Postcard
For Inspiration---Daily Bread
My Alma Mater Abilene Christian University

How to Reach Me:
Room E-124 Science Center
phone (617) 283-3353  Wellesley College extension X3353
email: porr@wellesley.edu




