Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 21:53:39 GMT
Server: Apache/1.2-dev
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 16 Oct 1996 18:12:55 GMT
ETag: "7674a-2217-326525a7"
Content-Length: 8727
Accept-Ranges: bytes



John C. Mallery


 Yosemite Valley
[The Nose on El Capitan Topo +
Beta | Big Wall | Climbing Magazine | Rock Climbing |
Rock & Ice | Areas, Rock, Mountain |
Gyms
| Gear | Guides | Yosemite
National Park + Photos + Map]
 John C. Mallery

is a research scientist directing the Intelligent
Information Infrastructure Project (Demos), but
who is basically having fun hacking computational politics at the national
and international level. His research areas span intelligent email routing,
automatic form processing, distributed hypermedia, document categorization and
routing, learning if-then rules on non-rectangular data, distributed data
integration, knowledge representation, reference, analogy, sentence
generation, natural language understanding.... and related fields.


 Current
Research: involves integrating, documenting, and deepening these systems as part of a three-year
project aimed at developing tools for an intelligent infostructure, which
special emphasis on the White House and the Congress.

  Wish
List: a knowledge-based operating system running on a MIMD parallel
machine.  The system should exceed the productivity of the Lisp Machine by
several orders of magnitude and integrate seamlessly with a global knowledge
base and with a global computational environment.


Funding: looking for a few motivated Lisp hackers who are ready to work
hard and win big on incredibly cool technology
with mind boggling implications.




Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
545 Technology Square, NE43-797
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139-4301
  Voice: (617) 253-5966
    FAX: (617) 253-5060
  Email: JCMa@AI.MIT.EDU



Major Lisp Systems

 RELATUS Natural Language System: An
environment for parsing and representing texts that has built referentially
integrated representations for text up to 600 pages
in length.   The implementation runs the full cycle from parsing through
representation back through generation. The emphasis is on a new
constructivist, interpretive approach to
perception and meaning.

  Communications Linker System: A
form-based system for automatically processing email (and now WWW) requests.
Also, serves a content-based routing system for documents and an automatic
survey system. It has been applied in a hierarchical, adaptive
survey of over 1600 respondents from 30 or so countries was conducted to
ascertain the usage of White
House Electronic Publications. It was generalized into wide-area
collaboration system for the Vice President's
Open Meeting on the National Performance Review.

  The Feature Vector Editor and I2D Rule
Learner: An object-oriented system for manipulating and analyzing
data.  The I2D rule learner operates within this framework and has learned
several hundred pages of empirically interesting rules on the history of
international conflict since 1945.

 Common
Lisp Hypermedia Server: This fully object-oriented server makes it
easy for AI researchers to interface complex systems to the World-Wide Web and
reap the benefits of rapid prototyping in Lisp for Hypermedia applications.



Selected Writings

 ``The
Open Meeting: A Web-Based System for Conferencing and Collaboration,''
with R. Hurwitz, Proceedings of The Fourth International Conference on The
World-Wide Web, Boston: MIT, December 12, 1995.
``A Common
LISP Hypermedia Server,'' Proceedings
of The First International Conference on The
World-Wide Web, Geneva: CERN, May
25, 1994.

``Beyond
Correlation: Bringing Artificial Intelligence to Event Data,'' 
International Interactions, 1994, 20 (1-2): 101-145. Postscript.

 ``Semantic
Content Analysis: A New Methodology for The RELATUS Natural Language
Environment,'' in Artificial Intelligence and International
Politics, V. Hudson, ed., Boulder: Westview Press, 1991. Postscript.


Thinking About Foreign Policy: Finding an Appropriate Role for Artificially
Intelligent Computers, Cambridge: Master's Thesis, M.I.T.  Political Science
Department, 1988.  Also, presented at  The 1988 Annual Meeting of the
International Studies Association, St. Louis, Missouri, 1988. 
Postscript
  ``Hermeneutics,''
with R. Hurwitz and G.  Duffy, The Encyclopedia of Artificial
Intelligence, New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1987. Postscript.



Selected Pointers on Computational Politics

Daniel
K. Schneider, Modelisation
de la demarche du decideur politique dans la perspective de l'intelligence
artificielle, Geneva: Doctoral Thesis, Department of Political
Science, University of Geneva, 1994.



