Date: Thu, 07 Nov 1996 19:22:38 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 12 Jul 1995 15:40:37 GMT
Content-length: 5416



Pattern Separation via Mathematical Programming



Pattern Separation via Mathematical Programming



This WWW page describes work in Pattern Separation via Linear Programming in 
the Mathematical Programming section of the 
University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department.

Brief History and Method Outline


Mathematical optimization approaches, in particular linear programming, have 
long been used in problems of pattern separation.  
In [65] linear programs were used to construct planes 
to separate linearly separable point sets.  
Separation by a nonlinear surface 
using linear programming was also described, whenever the surface 
parameters appeared linearly,
e.g. a quadratic or polynomial surface.  These formulations however could fail
on sets that were not separable by a surface linear in its parameters.  




A Multisurface Method (MSM) [68,93] 
avoided this difficulty.  MSM separates 2 disjoint finite point sets in 
n-dimensional Euclidean space as follows:  


 Choose 2 parallel planes in n-dimensional Euclidean space
       as close together so that only the region between the two planes
       contains points from both sets (i.e. the regions NOT between the
       2 parallel planes contain only points of 1 set or no points).


   Discard the points in the regions not between the 2 parallel planes.

   Repeat the process on the points between the 2 parallel planes, until
       the region between the 2 parallel planes contains no points or very
       few points.
 



Multisurface Method Tree (MSM-T),
a variant on the Multisurface Method was developed in   
[92a], [92b], [93].
Let A and B be finite disjoint point sets in n-dimensional Euclidean
space.   
The goal of MSM-T is to
determine a sequence of planes in n-dimensional Euclidean
space that separate the  sets A and B as follows:



 Determine a plane in n-dimensional Euclidean space that
       minimizes the average "distances" of misclassified points.  A point from
       set A is misclassified if it lies on the side of the separating
       plane assigned to B.
       Similarly, a point from set B is misclassified if it lies
       on the side of the separating plane assigned to A.


   If the regions assigned to A and B contain only (or
       mostly) points of the set A or B, then stop.  
       Otherwise, generate another
       error-minimizing plane (in 1.) in this region.



The sequence of planes generated can be viewed as a decision tree.  For each
node in the tree, the best split of the points reaching that node is found 
by solving the LP in 1, above.  The node is split into 2 branches, and the
same procedure is applied until there are only (or mostly) points of one
set at the node.   This linear programming approach can also be viewed as
training a neural network with 1 hidden layer
(see [93]).





MSM-T has been shown to learn concepts as well or better than more traditional
learning methods such as C4.5 and CART.  It also has an advantage over 
artificial neural network (ANN) methods such as backpropagation in
that training proceeds much faster (see [92a]).



Implementations of MSM-T
     

MSM-T has been implemented in C using the MINOS numerical 
optimization package by  Nick Street and Kristin Bennett.  MSM-T has also been implemented 
for the MATLAB 
optimization package by Paul Bradley.  Following is a description of the MATLAB implementation of MSM-T.  Together with the M-files 
required to run it. 



Chronological Bibliography

  [65] O. L. Mangasarian. 
  Linear and Nonlinear Separation of Patterns by Linear Programming.
	 Operations Research,  Vol. 13, No. 3, May-June, 1965, pages
	444 - 452.

    [68] O. L. Mangasarian. 
  Multisurface Method of Pattern Separation.  IEEE 
        Transactions on 
	Information Theory,  Vol. IT-14, No. 6, November 1968, pages 
	801 - 807.


    [92a] K. P. Bennett. 
  Decision Tree Construction via Linear Programming.  Proceedings of the 4th Midwest Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science Society Conference,  1992, pages 97 - 101.


    [92b] K. P. Bennett and O. L. Mangasarian. 
  Robust Linear Programming Discrimination of Two Linearly Inseparable Sets.  Optimization Methods and Software, Vol. 1, 1992, pages 23 - 34.


    [93] O. L. Mangasarian. 
 Mathematical Programming in Neural Networks.   ORSA Journal on Computing,  Vol. 5, No. 4, Fall 1993, pages 349 - 360.





Last modified: Wed Jul 12 10:40:37 1995 by Paul Bradley

paulb@cs.wisc.edu



