Date: Mon, 11 Nov 1996 01:56:48 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Mon, 05 Feb 1996 21:52:13 GMT
Content-length: 12061



SEQ Home Page
The SEQ Project: Querying Sequence Data
(Document under construction)






Time to put Order in the Database!

Order Time put in the Database!

Time to put the Database in Order!



Document Contents:


Project Objectives
Current Status
Motivating Example
SEQ Data Model
 Sequin  Query Language
Optimization Techniques
SEQ System Development
Publications
Related Work
Contact Information



Project Objectives

 A number of important database applications require the processing
of large amounts of ordered  sequence  data. The domains of these
applications include financial management, historical analysis,
economic and social sciences, metereology, medical sciences and
biological sciences. Existing relational databases are inadequate in 
this regard; data collections are treated as sets, not sequences. 
Consequently, expressing sequence queries is tedious, and evaluating 
them is inefficient.



Databases should 

model the data using the abstraction of  sequences ,
allow data sequences to be queried in a  declarative manner ,
utilizing the ordered semantics
take advantage of the unique opportunities available for query 
optimization and evaluation
integrate sequence data with relational data, so that users can
store and query a combination of relation and sequences

These requirements serve as the goals of the SEQ project.
Various kinds of sequences need to be supported, temporal sequences being the
most important kind. Queries should be expressible using notions like
"next" and "previous" which are natural when considering sequences.
These queries should be optimized so that they can be evaluated efficiently.
These issues need to be studied in theory, and then a database system needs 
to be built that demonstrates the feasibility of the theoretical ideas.




Project Status


The current status of the project is:

We have defined the  SEQ  data model that can support 
most important kinds of sequence data. We have also defined algebraic
query operators that can be composed to form sequence queries (analogous
to the composition of relational algebra operators to form relation queries).
We have described how sequence queries can be efficiently processed,
and have identified various optimization techniques.
We use a sequence query language  Sequin  that can
declaratively express queries over sequences. A  Sequin 
query can include embedded expressions in a relational query language like
SQL, or vice-versa.
We are building a disk-based database system to demonstrate the 
feasibility of our proposals. The system implements the  SEQ  
model using a nested complex object architecture. It is built over the 
SHORE storage manager and can process several megabytes of data.
Relations and sequences are supported in an integrated and extensible 
manner.




Motivating Example of a Sequence Query



A weather monitoring system records information about various meteorological 
phenomena. There is a sequentiality in the occurrence of these phenomena; the 
various meteorological events are sequenced by the time at which they are 
recorded. A scientist asks the query: 

  "For which volcano eruptions did
the most recent earthquake have a strength greater than 7.0 on the Richter 
scale?". 

If this query is to be expressed in a relational query language like SQL, 
complex features like groupby clauses, correlated subqueries and aggregate
functions are required. Further, a conventional relational query optimizer 
would not find an efficient query execution plan, even given the knowledge 
that the Earthquakes and Volcano relations are sorted by time.

However a very efficient plan exists, if one models the data as sequences
ordered by time. The two sequences can be scanned in lock step 
(similar to a sort merge join). The most recent earthquake record scanned 
can be stored in a temporary buffer. Whenever a volcano record is 
processed, the value of the most recent earthquake record stored in the 
buffer is checked to see if its strength was greater than 7.0, possibly 
generating an answer. This query can therefore be processed with a single 
scan of the two sequences, and using very little memory. The key to such 
optimization is the sequentiality of the data and the query. 



Data Model


The details of the  SEQ  data model are
described in a published paper (click here 
for postscript version). Here we present the gist of it.

The basic model of a sequence is a set of records mapped to an ordered
domain of ``positions''.
This many-to-many relationship between records and
positions can be viewed in two dual but distinct ways: as a set of records
mapped to each position, or as a set of positions mapped to each record.
These two views are called ``Positional'' and ``Record-Oriented'' respectively,
and each gives rise to a set of query operators based on that view.
Queries on sequences could require operators of either or both flavors. 
The Record-Oriented operators are similar to relational
operators and include various kinds of joins (overlap, containment, etc) and
aggregates. Such operators have been extensively explored by researchers
in the temporal database community.



The Positional operators include Next, Previous, Offset, Moving
Aggregates, etc.  Further operators allow ``zooming'' operations on 
sequences by means of collapsing and expanding the ordering domains 
associated with the sequence. For instance, a daily sequence could be 
``zoomed out'' (i.e.collapsed) to a weekly sequence, or ``zoomed in'' 
(i.e. expanded) to an hourly sequence. 

The last part of the model deals with operations on groups (i.e. sets) of 
sequences. The advantage is that this makes it easy to model queries 
involving sequence collections (which is the case in many real-world
situations). All the sequence operators are extended to work with groups 
of similar sequences, instead of with single sequences. This extension
of the SEQ model indicates that a practical implementation of
SEQ would probably involve a nested complex object system.



 Sequin  Query Language


We have devised a query language called  Sequin  using
which declarative sequence queries can be specified. The language
is similar in flavor to SQL, except that the inputs to queries
as well as the results of queries are sequences. Click 
 here  for a description of the  Sequin 
language with examples.



Optimization Techniques


We have proposed new optimization techniques for sequence queries 
involving Positional operators. There are existing techniques that
have been proposed for queries with Record-Oriented operators.
Our optimizations use query transformations, meta--data, and caching of 
intermediate results to efficiently evaluate a query. An optimal query 
evaluation plan can be generated using an algorithm that relies on cost 
estimates. One of the important observations is that accessing sequence data 
in a single stream is probably very efficient, and evaluation strategies 
should take this into account.

The details of the optimization techniques are
described in a published paper (click here 
for postscript version).



System Development


The SEQ database system has a client-server
architecture, supporting multiple clients via
a multi-threaded server. The server is built on
top of the SHORE  
storage manager. Both  Sequin 
and a subset of SQL are supported as query languages
which can be embedded inside each other. The data model
is a nested complex object model that allows arbitrary
levels of nesting of relations inside sequences and vice
versa. The system is also extensible, providing support
for new data types, new ordering domains, user-defined functions, 
new storage implementations and new query languages. For more details
on the SEQ system, click here.



Publications




Sequence Query Processing 

Praveen Seshadri, Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan.

Proceedings of the  ACM SIGMOD Conference on Data Management, May 1994.




SEQ: A Framework for Sequence Data

Praveen Seshadri, Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan.

Proceedings of the  IEEE Conference on Data Engineering, March 1995.




The Design and Implementation of a Sequence Database System

Praveen Seshadri, Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan.

Submitted to VLDB 96.




What's Next? Sequence Queries

Raghu Ramakrishnan, Michael Cheng, Miron Livny, and Praveen Seshadri.

In Proceedings of the  International Conference on the Management of Data (COMAD), 
December, 1994.




Related Work


The
DEVise 
project is complementary to SEQ. It provides a visualization
environment that can be used to explore sequence data. DEVise can act as
a front-end through which queries can be posed against a SEQ database server,
and the answers can be examined graphically.

Also see:

 SHORE Project: Storage Manager used for SEQ
 People working on SEQ and related projects
 UW-Madison, Database Research Group
 UW-Madison, CS Department Server




Contact Information



For more information, contact 

Praveen Seshadri,
praveen@cs.wisc.edu

Raghu Ramakrishnan,
raghu@cs.wisc.edu

Miron Livny,
miron@cs.wisc.edu


Computer Sciences Department, 
University of Wisconsin, 
1210, W.Dayton Street, 
Madison, WI 53706.




Last modified: Fri Sep 15 1995 by Praveen Seshadri

Praveen Seshadri / praveen@cs.wisc.edu



