Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:31:22 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html


UW Cecil/Vortex Project


UW Cecil/Vortex Project

Welcome to the home page for the Cecil and Vortex projects at UW CSE.  We conduct research on programming language design and implementation, with an emphasis on these issues for object-oriented languages.
Cecil is a purely object-oriented language intended to support rapid
construction of high-quality, extensible software.  Cecil incorporates
multi-methods, a simple prototype-based object model, a mechanism to
support a structured form of computed inheritance, module-based
encapsulation, and a flexible static type system which allows
statically- and dynamically-typed code to mix freely.


Vortex is an optimizing compiler infrastructure for
object-oriented and other high-level languages.  It targets both pure
object-oriented languages like Cecil and hybrid object-oriented
languages like C++, Modula-3, and Java.  Vortex currently incorporates
high-level optimizations such as static class analysis, class hierachy
analysis, profile-guided receiver class prediction, profile-guided
selective procedure specialization, intraprocedural message splitting,
automatic inlining, and static closure analyses.  It also includes a
collection of standard intraprocedural analyses such as common
subexpression elimination and dead assignment elimination.  The Vortex
compiler is written entirely in Cecil.



An initial beta release of the Cecil/Vortex system is currently
available for SPARCs running either SunOS 4 or SunOS 5 (Solaris).
Send mail to cecil-interest-request with a message body of subscribe if you'd like to subscribe to a list of
interested parties and get more information on how to obtain the
Beta release.


We've recently finished a technical report that describes much of our implementation research.

More Information


 Project Overview
 A more detailed overview of the project's goals and direction.  A postscript version is also available.


 Project members
 Current and past project members

 Papers
 Papers we've written


 Sample Projects
 A list of some sample research projects (available to people from UW
CSE)


 Internal Documentation
 Project internal documentation (available to people from UW CSE)


 Support
 This page lists some of the sources of support for our project


 Some related projects
 Pointers to a few other object-oriented language implementation projects






Last updated August 25, 1996. 

cecil@cs.washington.edu


