Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:32:46 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html



 Northwest Laboratory for Integrated Systems





 
 Northwest Laboratory for Integrated Systems
 




     Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
University of Washington,
     Box 352350 
Seattle, WA 98195-2350 USA












The Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of 
Washington has been engaged in Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) and 
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) research, development, and education since 
the late 1970s.  Today, the Northwest Laboratory for Integrated Systems 
is the focus of a wide variety of VLSI architectures, embedded sytems,
and CAD research.








Current Research Projects


Asynchronous Circuits and Verification




Time Separation of Events:
	Specification, synthesis, and verification of timed asynchronous
	circuits.


	Asynchronous Circuits:
 Survey of current asynchronous design methodologies, as
	well as the first FPGA for asynchronous circuits.





FPGAs and Rapid-Prototyping





Triptych/Montage FPGA Architectures:
	Development of the Triptych and Montage FPGA 
	architectures, architectures with improved densities over current 
	commercial FPGAs.



Multi-FPGA Systems & Rapid-Prototyping:
	Development of the Springbok Rapid-Prototyping System for
	Board-Level Designs, as well as partitioning, pin assignment,
	and routing topology work for general multi-FPGA systems.



Emerald - An Architecture-Adaptive Toolset for FPGAs:
	A complete set of mapping, placement and routing tools
can be generated automatically from a description of an FPGA
architecture.  Architecture-specific metrics can be incorporated
into the various tools to improve the results.





Embedded Systems




The Chinook Project:
	A Hardware/Software Co-design, Co-synthesis, and Co-simulation
	system for embedded applications.






Performance Optimization of Synchronous Circuits




Retiming Level-Clocked Circuits:
	Efficient algorithms for retiming circuits that use
level-sensitive latches to improve performance, reduce cost, and
increase tolerance to clock skew.



Architectural Retiming:
	Methods for improving the performance of synchronous
circuits that have latency or feedback contraints.




Network Router
The Chaotic
Routing Project 





Self-Tuned Systems


Self-tuned systems are directed by Ted Kehl



Previous Research Projects

 
 Gemini
 Validating layout by comparing the specification circuit to the
	implemented circuit.
 

MacTester
 A low-cost digital functional tester for chips and circuits
	with TTL or CMOS voltage levels.




