MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 18:57:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 10260
Last-Modified: Friday, 31-May-96 14:15:26 GMT



 Faculty Research Interests : Brian Smith 


 Brian Smith 



 bsmith@cs.cornell.edu
 Xerox Professor of Computer Science
 Ph.D., University Of California at Berkeley, 1994
 Office: 4107B Upson Hall
 Office phone: 607-255-1180
 Office hours this semester: Tues & Thurs 3:00 to 4:00



Research Interests
Teaching
Selected Publications
Research Talks
Misc Links


Research Interests

My research goal is to make video a first class data type in our
computing environment. To this end, my research group,
 Project Zeno,
is building technologies supporting the storage, communication, and
processing of continuous media data.  In contrast to other commercial
and research approaches, which require specialized hardware, operating
systems, or networks to be usable, all of these technologies we are
designing fit into the current research environment.  Our premise is
that the current hardware, software, and communication infrastructure
is sufficient to support research into continuous media systems and
applications.  We are verifying this hypothesis by building working
systems.


Our research on storage systems is directed towards building the Zeno
distributed video file server.  The Zeno architecture uses a network of
workstations connected by a generic local area network (e.g., an
ethernet), a common environment in computing research laboratories.
Each workstation can act simultaneously as both a client and a server
of continuous media data.   As a client, a workstation plays video
stored on one or more servers. As a server, a workstation is a file
server for video data.  Each client can receive video stored at several
servers, and each server can service several clients.   Compared with
large centralized servers, the advantages of this design are:


 Scalability.  As new clients are added, new servers are
     automatically added.

 Load balancing. The load generated by serving videos is distributed
     both across machines and across networks (in the case where the
     servers are located on different networks).

 Low initial investment. By utilizing existing infrastructure, the
     Zeno architecture promotes early adoption in research environments
     with almost no initial investment.


Our research on communication systems is centered around best effort
delivery protocols.  Such protocols are built on existing network
protocols and, in contrast to many other research efforts, do not need
to reserve network resources to establish a connection.  Resource
reservation protocols are well suited to the national communication
infrastructure where users can be charged on a per call basis for
bandwidth and connections, but are poorly suited to network
environments where the network is a shared resource equally accessible
by all researchers.  Our approach is appropriate for the latter
environments, commonly found in research laboratories.  The
communication protocol we have developed, called Cyclic-UDP, is built
on top of the UDP datagram protocol, and is designed to transport audio
and video data in playback applications in local, metropolitan, and
wide area networks.  Cyclic-UDP is used by the Zeno file server to
deliver audio and video data to clients.  A
 paper describing cyclic UDP is available
online , as well as the
 slides from a research talk. 

Our research on processing video data has been two-fold.  First, we are
developing algorithms to process video data in the compressed
representation.  Processing video without decompression leads to
dramatic speed-ups in processing performance since it both removes the
time-consuming processes of compression and decompression and reduces
the amount of data that must be processed.  Experiments with an
implementation of these ideas on JPEG compressed image data indicates
that the data can be processed one to two orders of magnitude faster
than what was possible with previous approaches.  We are currently
extending these ideas by parallelizing the algorithms using networks of
workstations and by developing a method for transcoding video in
software.  In video transcoding, video is translated from one
compression format to another, a useful operation for video file
servers that must service heterogeneous clients.
A  paper describing compressed
domain processing  is available online.


Our research on video processing is also exploring methods to simplify
experimentation with video processing by developing a programming
language where video is a first class data type.  This language, called
Rivl (pronounced "rival"), allows
video processing effects to be specified independent of the resolution
and format of the source material.  The language does for video what
Postscript did for text and graphics: it provides a resolution
independent method for specifying video processing.  Thus, the same
program can process low quality QuickTime video very quickly while
editing decisions are made, and then be used to format a high quality
finished product off-line, in much the same way that Postscript can be
previewed on a workstation at low quality, then sent to a 2600 dpi
printer for camera ready copy. 
A  paper describing RVL 
is available online.


A  talk that reviews our research on
video processing,  both compressed domain processing and Rivl,
is available online.


The common theme of all these efforts is to provide tools to make video
usable in our research environment.
A  talk that reviews this research 
is also available online.


Teaching

At Cornell University, I teach an undergraduate course  (CS 314) on computer
architecture, and a graduate course  (CS
631) on multimedia systems.


Selected Publications

 Jonathan Swartz, Brian C.  Smith
    
A Resolution Independent Video Language 
    Proc. of the Third ACM International Conference on Multimedia, San
    Francisco, CA, November 5-9, 1995. (An
    
    HTML version is also available).

 Asif Ghias, Jonathan Logan, David Chamberlin, Brian C.  Smith
    
Query By Humming -- Large Musical Information
    Retrieval in An Audio Database 
    Proc. of the Third ACM International Conference on Multimedia, San
    Francisco, CA, November 5-9, 1995. (An  HTML version is also available).

 Peter Liu, Brian C. Smith, Lawrence A. Rowe
     Tcl-DP Name Server, 
    Proc. of the 1995 Tcl/TK Workshop, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, July 1993.

 Brian C. Smith, 
    
Cyclic-UDP: A Priority-Driven Best-Effort,
    
 Brian C. Smith, 

Fast Software Processing of Motion JPEG Video, 

Proc. of the Second ACM International Conference on Multimedia, San
Francisco, CA, October 15-20, 1994.

 Lawrence A.Rowe, Ketan Patel, Brian C. Smith, 

MPEG video in software: representation, transmission and playback,

IS&T/SPIE Symposium on Electronic Imaging: Science & Technology, San Jose,
California, February, 1994.

 Brian C. Smith, Lawrence A. Rowe, Stephen C. Yen 

Tcl Distributed Programming,

Proc. of the 1993 Tcl/TK Workshop, Berkeley, CA, June 1993.

 Ketan Patel, Brian C. Smith, and Lawrence A. Rowe, 

Performance of a Software MPEG Video Decoder, 

Proc. of the First ACM International
Conference on Multimedia, Anaheim, CA, August 1-6, 1993, pp 75-82.

 Brian C. Smith, Lawrence A. Rowe, 

A New Family of Algorithms for Manipulating Compressed Images,

IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, September, 1993.

 Lawrence A. Rowe, Brian C. Smith, 

Continuous Media Player,

Third International Workshop on Network and Operating Systems Support
for Digital Audio and Video, Nov. 12-13, 1992, San Diego, CA.


Selected Research Talks

  
      Distributed Multimedia System's Research at Cornell
      
      My most recent research

  
      A Resolution Independent Video Language,
      
      Talk at Xerox Webster Research Center, June 20, 1995 


  
     A Best-Effort Transmission Protocol for Continuous Media Data
      
  
     Computing with Video: Xerox Site Review, Nov 29, 1994
      
  
     University of Minnesota Colloquium Talk, Feb 6, 1995
      


Misc Links
 
Multimedia Courses on the Web 
   The Art Work of Annette Hanna  
 
	Tcl7.5/Tk4.1 Manual

	MMCN96: Electronic Proceedings

	CMT Documentation
The PriceWeb



