MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 20-Nov-96 18:58:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 17979
Last-Modified: Wednesday, 26-Jun-96 01:37:46 GMT

Bruce Randall Donald









Bruce Randall Donald
Associate Professor
brd@cs.cornell.edu


Ph.D. MIT, 1987
 Weather in Palo Alto.

My Official Departmental Home Page. 
 Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory

Dan Huttenlocher and I founded the

Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory  in 1991. 



Research
My interests include

robotics,

microelectromechanical systems,

geometric algorithms, and artificial intelligence. 

Robotics is the science that seeks 
to forge an intelligent, computational connection between perception 
and action.

Working with graduate student Jim Jennings, research associate  Daniela
Rus, graduate student 
Russell Brown, and lab alumnus  Jonathan Rees
(now at MIT), we developed a  team of autonomous
mobile robots that can perform sophisticated  distributed manipulation tasks
(such as  moving furniture).  The robots run
robust SPMD protocols that are completely asynchronous and require no
communication. With grad student  Karl
Böhringer and EE Professor Noel MacDonald, we are building a
 massively parallel array of microactuators in the
Cornell National Nanofabrication Laboratory.  The array
is a SCREAM chip containing over 11,000 actuators in 1 square
centemeter, and can orient small parts without sensory
feedback. Our microfabricated actuator arrays could be used to
construct programmable parts-feeders (at any scale), or to build
self-propelled IC's (walking VLSI chips.)  Graduate student  Amy
Briggs worked with Dan Huttenlocher's vision group to develop  a sensor planning and surveillance system for a team of
mobile robots. The robots use on-board vision to detect and
intercept targets in the lab.

 Demos 

Massively parallel micro-fabricated actuator arrays.
 
MPEG video of Tommy chasing Lily. Tommy and Lily are  mobile robots we built. Using algorithms developed
by the 
vision group in  our
lab, Lily can track Tommy and follow him, using visual information
alone. This video shows Lily's view of the `chase.'



Face Morphing.

Selected Recent Publications
  
K.-F. Böhringer, B. R. Donald, and N. C. MacDonald,  Upper and
Lower Bounds for Programmable Vector Fields with Applications to MEMS
and Vibratory Parts Feeders,  International Workshop on the
Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics, Toulouse, France (1996).


 

A.J. Briggs and B. R. Donald,  Robust
Geometric Algorithms for Sensor Planning,  International
Workshop on the Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics, Toulouse,
France (1996).

 

K.-F. Böhringer, B. R. Donald, and N. C. MacDonald, 

Single-Crystal Silicon Actuator Arrays for Micro Manipulation Tasks,
IEEE Workshop on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS),
San Diego, California (February 1996).  

 

K.-F. Böhringer, B. R. Donald, and N. C. MacDonald, 

Classification and Lower Bounds for MEMS Arrays	and Vibratory Parts Feeders:
What Programmable Vector Fields Can (and Cannot) Do - Part I,

IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
Minneapolis, Minnesota (April 1996). 

 

 K.-F. Böhringer, B. R. Donald, and N. C. MacDonald, 

 New and
Improved Manipulation Algorithms for MEMS Arrays and Vibratory Parts
Feeders: What Programmable Vector Fields Can (and Cannot) Do - Part
II,

IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), Minneapolis, Minnesota (April 1996). 

   Provably
Good Approximation Algorithms for Optimal Kinodynamic Planning: Robots
with Decoupled Dynamics Bounds  (with P. Xavier)  Algorithmica
 (Vol 14, no 6) (1995). pp. 443-479. 
   Provably
Good Approximation Algorithms for Optimal Kinodynamic Planning for
Cartesian Robots and Open Chain Manipulators (with P. Xavier) 
Algorithmica  (Vol 14, no 6) (1995). pp. 480-530. 
  .

Kinodynamic Motion Planning (with P. Xavier, J.
Canny, and J. Reif)  Journal of the ACM, Vol. 40, No. 5, Nov.,
1993. pp. 1048-1066.

  

Information Invariants for Distributed Manipulation (with J.
Jennings and  D.
Rus) in  International Journal of Robotics Research, (in
press) (1996). 


B. R. Donald, J. Jennings, and D. Rus,  Minimalism +
Distribution = Supermodularity , Journal of Experimental and
Theoretical Artificial Intelligence (JETAI), (in press) 1996. 

  . I am
 writing a book entitled
 Information Invariants in Robotics. A draft of the first
quarter of this book appeared as a paper in Artificial
Intelligence. Here it is:  
Information Invariants in Robotics. Revised MS based on the paper
"On Information Invariants in Robotics,"  Artificial
Intelligence Vol. 72 (Jan, 1995) pp. 217-304.  

 




Distributed Robotic Manipulation: Experiments in
Minimalism, in
 International Symposium on Experimental Robotics, (ISER)
Stanford, CA (1995).

 


Moving Furniture with Teams of Automonous Mobile Robots, (with J.
Jennings and  D.
Rus) in
 Proc.~IEEE/Robotics Society of
Japan International Workshop on Intelligent Robots and Systems, (IROS)
Pittsburgh, PA (1995).

  
 Sensorless
Manipulation Using Massively Parallel Micro-fabricated Actuator
Arrays (with 
K.-F. Böhringer, R.  Mihailovich, and Noel C.  MacDonald),
 Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, San Diego, CA (May, 1994).  A 
demo and more detailed explanation.

  .

 Program Mobile Robots in Scheme(with  J. Rees) 

Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
Nice, France (May, 1992), pp.  2681-2688.

 


Information Invariants for Distributed Manipulation (with J.
Jennings and  D.
Rus) in
 The First Workshop on the Algorithmic Foundations of
Robotics, A. K. Peters, Boston, MA. ed. R. Wilson and
J.-C.Latombe (1994). 
 




Automatic Sensor Configuration for  
Task-Directed Planning (with 

Amy Briggs),  Proceedings 1994
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, San Diego,
CA (May 1994). 
 Other
Publications.  
Recent Theses and Papers of PhD Students

  Patrick Xavier, PhD 1992. Except for the thesis, these TR's are
  mostly superseded by three, more recent journal papers listed starting here.
 Amy
Briggs, PhD 1994.

  (Her Papers and Thesis).


Russell Brown,  PhD 1995.

  (His Papers and Thesis).


  Jim Jennings.

Karl-F. Böhringer.
 Post-Docs Trained in  Our
Lab
 
  Daniela Rus.
 
  Jonathan Rees.
 
  Dinesh Pai.


More papers are avalable through the 

Cornell CS TR server.
 Some other papers are listed here. 

Cornell CS TR version of my Online Tech Reports  
Cornell Library Catalog
CS TR index

Obtaining Copies of Papers

Copies of our papers are available via anonymous FTP. 
Pictures
 We have developed a  team
of small autonomous mobile robots that can  move
furniture around in our lab. 


<--- Click here for a group portrait of our robots.

 Click here
to see a picture of 
Tommy and Lily mobot pushing a couch. 
 Click here
to see a picture of 
Tommy and Lily rotating a couch. 
 Click here to see a
picture of  
Tommy the mobile robot, drawn by Loretta Pompilio.  

 Click here
to see pictures of people and robots working in the lab.  

 Our lab was on  The Discovery
Channel ("Beyond 2000") and you can find out more about it here.

Fun

A Poem by Alfred, the Mail Agent. 

Family Pictures. 

 I play in 


Harmful If Swallowed.
 in Ithaca.

 I sometimes play with 

 in California. 

More



Other people and robots in the 
Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory.



Cornell Robotics and Vision Laboratory home page.

 Other people in the Cornell CS department 

 Click here
for search tools and information access stuff. 
 Return to Cornell CS Top-Level 

Why I say  click
here.




  "You will have the tallest, darkest leading man in Hollywood."

		--- Merian C. Cooper to Fay Wray


















